[[page: Two Nights In Lisbon Summary,, Wen,, Book Summaries, /]]
# Two Nights In Lisbon By Chris Pavone
This book club is hosted by Boston University Aphasia Resource Center for Fall 2023. The book tells of a newlywed couple who are vacationing when the groom goes missing. No explicit copyright was asserted for this material.
## Chapter 1
Ariel wakes up in a hotel room, in Lisbon, and her husband (John) is not next to her. She wakes up groggy, unsure if she is exhausted because of the sleeping pill she took the night before or because of jetlag. She tries not to worry, but the panic is setting in, where is her husband? She opens up her phone. When she selects John's location, it reads, "Location not found." She tries to calm her nerves by taking a shower and heading downstairs to the hotel lobby. She imagines he must be waiting for her in the lobby.
In the first chapter, the author reveals small details about Ariel's past. Ariel is an early riser, who is extremely punctual and reliable, but she wasn't always that way. As a child, Ariel was young, wild, and careless. Before she met John, Ariel was married to her ex-husband (Bucky). Ariel left her first marriage and started from scratch. She moved out of the city, bought a home, found a job, and raised a baby. Her relationship with John was unexpected. She is still learning to trust John. 
The last time she saw John was at midnight the night before. Ariel knew every inch of what her husband looked like but doesn't seem to know him well. The next thing Ariel remembers is waking up in her hotel room alone.
## Chapter 2
Ariel anxiously texts John, asking where he is. She thinks back to a time when phones didn't exist and how much easier it was to not be stuck waiting for a response. She is in the breakfast room of their hotel, worried and clueless as to where her John is. Ariel asks a waiter, Joao, if he had seen her husband, but he had not. She thinks of her current situation and how pitiful she must look and feels ashamed at her questioning. Ariel looks through John's items in the hotel room, desperately trying to get answers but coming up with none. She realizes that she only knows trivial information about her John, acknowledging it is all "meaningless crap". She calls him – no response. She finds herself left with no other option but to urgently ask the other hotel workers if they had seen him this morning. They had not. There are no answers for Ariel, and she is stuck wondering.
## Chapter 3
Ariel tries calling John again, but it goes straight to voicemail. She remembers when last winter she fell ill with pneumonia one night. She called her best friend, Sarah, who drove her to the hospital. If she had not called Sarah for help, she would have died that night. Ariel decides she must ask the police to help find John. She meets two English-speaking detectives: Antonio Moniz and Carolina Santos. Because John has only been missing for ten hours, Antonio is not worried and does not think he is missing. He tells Ariel that John may just be at work and will return. Ariel still feels unsure. Antonio gives her his business card and says to call him if John is still missing the next morning. After Ariel leaves the police station, Carolina tells Antonio that she thinks Ariel does not know John as well as she thinks. Carolina directs Erico, a young detective, to follow Ariel.
## Chapter 4
After visiting the police, Ariel meets Saxby Barnes in the U.S. Embassy to report her missing husband. She starts by describing John's features before going into detail about the reasons they are in Portugal. There is suspicion in the air due to the potential nature of the situation; Saxby determines the situation to be a case of a man cheating on his wife for a younger woman since Ariel is 10 years older than John. He advises Ariel to go to the local police but then asks if she or John go by any other names.
## Chapter 5
With no luck at the embassy, Ariel is approached by Pete Wagstaff, a news reporter. He overheard her dilemma at the embassy and suggests he may be able to help. Ariel rejects his help, saying she can't talk to reporters, it's "out of the question," with no further explanation. Ariel calls home to her son, checking in on him and the dogs.
Saxby Barnes visits CIA station chief Nicole Griffiths with Ariel's story and reveals that both Ariel and John had changed their names, separately, before they even met. Moreover, Ariel does not seem to know about John's
name change. Saxby asks Nicole to locate John's phone. Meanwhile, Ariel roams Lisbon, noting how even though it looks like a safe and happy place, she knows there is no such thing. She calls the local hospitals, and none have any record of John.
On orders from Nicole Griffiths, Kayla Jefferson and Guido Antonucci of the CIA locate John's phone. It is revealed that his phone has not moved in six hours and is currently located by an unoccupied warehouse.
## Chapter 6:
Ariel continues to look for clues and finds herself in the town square where she realizes that there are cameras in front of her hotel. Ariel feels panicked. She sees the footage, where she spots John walking outside of the hotel in the early morning. She watches him freeze and then slip out of frame, but by the shadows she surmises he got into a car. She has rewatched the footage with Duarte at the hotel reception but cannot find any other clues. She heads outside to where the camera recorded John. Ariel looks around curiously and observantly for other cameras but knows that she has come up to a dead end.
At the same time, Detectives Carolina Santos and António Moniz discuss Ariel's case briefly after a phone call from Erico, a younger fellow detective (last mentioned in Ch. 3).
Meanwhile, Guido, Kayla, and Nicole of the CIA are looking for John's phone. They find it amongst bins of trash, but there are no signs of John.
## Chapter 7
Ariel brings the thumbdrive (containing footage of John leaving the hotel lobby and supposedly entering a car) to Moniz and Santos at the police station. Moniz and Santos agree to investigate more and begin by asking Ariel a series of questions. Ariel does not know the answers to most of the interrogation questions. Ariel shares the following information: 
1. Ariel thinks that her husband is in the business of manufacturing natural resources, 
1. Ariel thinks that John works with a man named Jorge, and
1. Ariel shows Moniz and Santos a picture of her husband. Moniz appears slightly suspicious of Ariel because she only has one photograph of John.
While Ariel is walking back to the hotel, she suspects that someone is following her. Ariel is unsure what to do. She decides to walk into a crowded market and order a glass of water. When she leaves the restaurant, she does not see the person following her anymore. 
Meanwhile, the house cleaner, Leanor, is cleaning Ariel's hotel room. While she is cleaning under the bed, she notices something.
## Chapter 8
Ariel gets a phone call from the only full-time employee of her bookshop, Persephone. Ariel thinks back to her last day at the shop before she left for Portugal. Ariel sees three people enter her shop and realizes
she knew them over a decade ago when she was an actress in NYC with the name Laurel Turner. One of the three people, Tory Wasserman, spots Ariel and talks to her. Ariel notices the behavior of Tory, Tory's cousin Madison, and Tory's husband Slade. Ariel judges the trio for their excessive wealth and snobby standards, which she previously indulged in. Ariel dodges Tory's questions about why she moved out of the city, and Ariel does not ask any follow-up uestions about Tory's life now. 
Meanwhile, present day in Lisbon, Ariel looks out of her hotel window for the person who was following her. She asks Persephone if anyone in the shop was looking for her. Ariel tells Persephone to write down the description and time of anyone who does, but she won't explain why. 
Ariel flashes back, again, to the last day she was in her bookshop before leaving. She notes that she locked eyes across the street with a man in his truck. Before leaving, Ariel had thought about all of the things that could go wrong while she was on vacation, but not once had she thought about her husband going missing abroad.

## Chapter 9
Duarte, the receptionist at the hotel, tells Ariel that they are still trying to contact her husband but have some surprising evidence that the housekeeping staff found.
The story cuts to Nicole Griffiths talking to Saxby Barnes as she's leaving the embassy office. She's hoping that the mystery of Ariel's husband is not a threat to national security.
The story returns to Ariel's perspective. Detective Moniz presents her with a handwritten note, but she isn't sure if this is her husband's handwriting when asked. She is convinced that her husband was meant to return to the hotel room because of the note he left. Moniz suggests that there was no ill-will towards Ariel's husband since the current evidence shows that he left the hotel on his own accord. Ariel reveals that her husband has been talking with another woman. Barnes is approached by Mr. Wagstaff regarding information that could be important to their investigation.
During their meal, Detective Moniz asks Ariel if she really knows her husband.
## Chapter 10
Detective Moniz asks Ariel if John uses drugs or is involved with another woman. Ariel becomes annoyed by his suspicions of John and asks the detectives to contact Portugal's intelligence service to locate John's phone. Since there is no evidence that John's disappearance is a matter of international intelligence, the police cannot fulfill this request. The chapter ends with Ariel sobbing.
In this chapter, the author reveals Ariel's paranoia after meeting John for the first time. She searched John on the internet, made anonymous calls and emails, and eventually hired a private investigator (PI). Ariel reflects on her previous relationship. She had known and lived with this man for years before she realized she did not know important parts about him. Ariel internally questions whether or not she has made the same mistake with John.
## Chapter 11
Ariel remembers that her husband made a dinner reservation for the next day. She doesn't remember where, but it would be with his client. She tells the police, and they agree to look into it.
Following this, Ariel details some unfortunate life experiences. Her whole life, in the eyes of her parents, her friends, and the police, she has been a disbelieved woman, silenced over and over again. In her experiences, ranging from unwanted sexual touching at age 13 to attempted rape at 16 and again in adulthood, no one took her seriously.
These brushed-aside and too common assaults left her certain of one thing: No man was completely trustworthy.
Back at the restaurant, Moniz and Santos discuss John's case. Santos believes that there is no infidelity or drugs involved, but Moniz doubts her, thinking she always assumes the woman is telling the truth. Santos says if she were Ariel, she would be worried too. Moniz tells Santos he would be surprised if this whole thing didn't have something to do with sex.
As Ariel walks down the streets of Lisbon, a motorcycle speeds towards her, hands her a phone, and speeds away. She realizes it is ringing.
## Chapter 12
Chapter 12 consists of a short phone call between Ariel and an unknown caller. The caller tells Ariel in a distorted voice that they have her husband and demands 3 million euro within 48 hours in exchange for his well being. The caller insists that there will be no negotiations, extensions, police, or embassy and that Ariel must keep the phone on her at all times. Ariel asks why she should believe John is okay, which is confirmed by John's voice on the line briefly, saying "Ariel, it's me." Ariel insists she does not have three million euros. The caller says "But you know people who do."

## Chapter 13
After hearing the message that her husband was kidnapped, Ariel realizes her son and mother may not be safe. She instructs her mother to take George somewhere where no one would find them and to not use their phones or credit cards. Ariel thinks back to when she first got the farmhouse. She did not know how to fix the problems that came with an old house and did not like having to rely on others for help. She hired Jeb Payne to fix her water filter, and his visit made a lingering bad impression. After that, she learned how to fix things in her house by herself.

## Chapter 14
As Ariel is walking to her hotel, she finds that she is lost and spots Guido following her. She recognizes he is wearing the same khaki pants and shoes. She considers walking away but decides to confront him and attack.
Ariel flashbacks to two years ago when she was home alone and Jeb Payne came to her house uninvited. He claimed to follow-up on the water filter. He then tried to rape Ariel, but she fights him off, breaking his nose and hitting his head with a pan. She threatens to kill him but considers calling the police. She decides not to call the police as he may use the opportunity to escape to his truck where he may keep a gun. Ariel runs to Jeb's truck, takes his gun, and tells him to leave.

## Chapter 15
Ariel decided not to go to the police because Jeb's cousin/best friend, Brooks, is a cop. A couple of months after Jeb's attack, Ariel saw his wife, Beverly, in the supermarket and considered confronting her about Jeb. Ariel decides not to tell Beverly, understanding that Beverly is not her enemy and that she may also be a survivor of Jeb's violent behavior.
After Jeb's attack, Ariel was afraid that he would seek revenge. Because they live in a small town, she felt vulnerable as he knew all her whereabouts. Ariel got rid of Jeb's gun and took self-defense classes.
In the present, Ariel approaches Guido and attacks him. While he's on the ground in pain, he explains that he is an American from the embassy trying to help her with her husband.
From a distance, Pete Wagstaff, the news reporter, witnesses the entire encounter, including the motorcycle incident. He recognizes Guido as part of the CIA and watches as Guido and Ariel climb into the back of a SUV with diplomat plates. Wagstaff is now committed to learning more of what is going on.

## Chapter 16
Ariel arrives at the embassy where she is greeted by Nicole Griffiths of the CIA. Griffiths confirms John has been kidnapped and proceeds to ask questions about Ariel and John's life. Ariel lies to Griffiths about her past relationships with wealth and wealthy people. Ariel calls her ex-husband to try to ask for some of the ransom money.
Meanwhile, Griffiths looks at the phone that was dropped off by the motorcyclist presumably involved with the kidnapping. riffiths instructs her colleagues Guido and Kayla Jefferson to look at the phone quickly and to tap Ariel's personal phone. Ariel calls her ex-husband, Bucky, from the landline at the embassy, but does not get a response. She leaves a voicemail using her old name, Laurel. Griffiths' phone search comes up inconclusive, besides the fact it was bought in Málaga. Griffiths asks Ariel about her past with her ex-husband, Bucky, and of the lifestyle of wealth in NYC.

Bucky returns Ariel's call. Ariel tells Bucky the situation and asks for the money. Bucky seems concerned but says he cannot come up with three million euros that quickly. Bucky says there is someone who they could ask, but Ariel does not want to ask that person for help. The call ends, and Ariel thinks of a way that she could contact the person whom she does not want to ask for help. She does not want there to be any possibility of the embassy, or anyone for that matter, overhearing their conversation.

## Chapter 17
Griffiths and Jefferson hear Bucky and Ariel talking about a man who could help get the money. This mystery man is described by Ariel as being a "tax dodger" and a "criminal in other ways." It is inferred that this mystery man would have the financial means to pay the ransom. Griffiths and Jefferson are curious about who this mystery man is.
Back in the hotel, Ariel asks Alexandra, the night clerk, if she could use the hotel's phone. Ariel is scared to use her own phone in case someone was tapping/bugging her phone. Ariel attempts to call the mystery man's work office. His secretary answers the phone and tells Ariel that the mystery man cannot talk. Ariel anticipates that this mystery man will tell his secretary to keep the phone call secret. It is clear that the mystery man wants to hide that he and Ariel had ever been in contact.
Ariel begs Bucky to ask the mystery man for the ransom money on her behalf. Ariel thinks that the mystery man would be more likely to pick up Bucky's phone call since the two men used to be close friends. Ariel wants Bucky to lie and tell the mystery man that Ariel was recording the last conversion she had with the mystery man. In exchange for Ariel not releasing the "fake" audiotape to the public/tabloids, Ariel wants the mystery man to give her the money to release John from his kidnappers.

## Chapter 18
After her exchange with the kidnappers, Ariel calls her mother, Elaine, to deactivate her and George's cell phones. She is worried about them now that she has found out the true nature of her husband's disappearance. However, Elaine refuses to believe Ariel as Ariel begs her mother to do as she says.
Ariel remembers the times that her mother was critical of her. When living on a farm, her mother had opinions that drove a wedge in between her and her relationship with Elaine. In the end, Ariel finds comfort in animals and children because of their innocent natures.
Then, her mother gives the phone to George, and Ariel asks him about how he is doing with his illness. This causes her to remember her time with George as a younger child and how he used to be attached to her. However, growing pains create a rift between Ariel and her son, and she is determined to make a change in her life.

## Chapter 19
Ariel receives a phone call from the mystery man. She immediately tells him about the situation: her husband was kidnapped, and the ransom demand is three million euros within 48 hours. The mystery man claims he cannot intervene, but Ariel mentions part of her blackmail: paternity records and a police report. The mystery man instructs Ariel to go back to the embassy, where he has given orders to the guards to bring her to a secure communications room. There, they can have a secure phone call. Ariel tells the mystery man that he must help her since she has a recording of their last conversation before she signed an NDA. She explains that this recording would make him lose his career, his marriage, and his status. He finally agrees to help her but is not sure how yet. He tells her that no one–not the police, not even her husband–can know about his involvement.
Ariel tells the mystery man that she will pay him back.
Meanwhile, Antonucci has been following Ariel and informs Nicole Griffiths that he saw her go to the embassy. In this chapter, we still do not learn the mystery man's name, but we know that he is best friends with Bucky and that he is a politician.

## Chapter 20
Ariel's phone call ends, and she finds herself leaving the secure communication room at the embassy. A marine tells her that he is under strict orders to get her into the provided ride back to the hotel. Ariel is weary, paranoid, thinking she is going to be killed. She makes a run for it, and although the driver is calling to her, he does not turn the car around to follow her. As she is running, she realizes that there is a man running after her. Ariel runs and finds herself in between the Brazilian and American embassies at a fancy apartment building. The guard of the apartment building is yelling after her, towards her, but she rounds the corner and cannot hear the guard behind her. She is standing in the dark, thinking of options for what she is going to do. She inhales, exasperated from running, and prepares to continue forward.
## Chapter 21
Ariel runs until she sees a dark, male, figure blocking her path. When she gets closer she realizes it is Antonucci. Antonucci asks why Ariel was running and who she was running from. Ariel begins crying. Antonucci reassures Ariel that he is safe. Antonucci tells Ariel that they found her husband's phone abandoned, but that they are still looking for more investigative leads. Antonucci drives Ariel back to the hotel room so she can get some sleep.
Ariel is beginning to lose faith and trust in herself. She is starting to believe that she is crazy and over worried. This is how it starts, Ariel thinks to herself. After not being believed this whole time, she starts to wonder if she
is really lying herself. That is where the gaslighting begins.

## Chapter 22
Day 2 begins. Ariel thinks back to when George was young and she cut her hair short, both for convenience and for feeling like she did not need to look a certain way for other people, only for herself. Meanwhile, Jefferson and Griffiths are going over the recorded phone conversation between Ariel and the mystery man. Griffiths notes that the voice sounds familiar.
Ariel eats breakfast while watching the news, seeing a story about the US VP nominee. She thinks about how the media describes him as a patriot.
She reminds herself that the same can be said for the men in terrorist groups, white nationalists, Nazis, etc. She thinks to herself that the fanatic, dogmatic dedication to your community does not make a person good, and neither does self-proclaimed patriotism. She watches the man give a check for 1 million dollars to charity. She thinks about how the "game" of life is rigged by powerful men like this, so instead of playing it, she has to make her own game and rig it herself.

## Chapter 23
Moniz and Santos approach Ariel about the ransom for her husband - three million euros (about $3,200,000 USD). The detectives share that an anonymous diplomat informed them. They also ask Ariel how she will get the money for the ransom, suggesting that she call John's company, Tudor Consultants.
Ariel claims that she never calls John's office line, but she recalls calling once to confirm John was indeed a truthful person who talks to his dogs often. Ariel finds this charming as her son did the same when first adopting their dogs, eventually Ariel catching onto the habit.
The detectives then ask Ariel about any of John's relatives. She only knows his sister who currently lives in Morocco, but the detectives share that she is now in Portugal.

## Chapter 24
Moniz and Santos continue questioning Ariel about John's past. She does not know why his sister is in Portugal, but she only knows John's original name. When the detectives ask about Ariel's trust fund that her son will inherit, Ariel begins to recall her past as Laurel Turner.
Ariel as Laurel Turner is at an office in Midtown trying to convict the perpetrator of rape while Bucky is trying to call her. As she is leaving the building, a man remarks about her beauty, telling Laura to smile more so that people do not think that she is a stuck up woman. In response, Laura stands up for herself, asking the man why she should be friendly with random people if they were not going to be friendly with her in the first place. She refuses to let these sexual interactions ruin her life any further. This results in a verbal altercation that forces a security guard to intervene. Laura Turner reinvents herself as Ariel Pryce, and Ariel is now a fully documented person. As she tries to remove any traces of Laura Turner, Ariel embraces the anonymity of her new identity. While no one will find her old self, she has to maintain a new story in a small town where she has fewer places and opportunities to hide from those who know her past.

## Chapter 25
Ariel asks the police why they are questioning her about her missing husband's sister. The police tell her the different ways they are investigating her husband's kidnapping. Ariel steps aside as she gets a phone call from Nigel James, the lawyer representing the mystery man. He informs Ariel that the mystery man cannot pay her three million dollars, but is able to pay two million. Ariel anxiously accepts this lesser sum of money for the ransom, seeing no other option. Ariel then leaves the police station.
Kayla Jefferson, of the CIA, calls Officer Douglas Pulaski to ask him about a crime that Ariel reported fourteen years ago when she was living under the name Laurel Turner. Officer Pulaski says he is not legally allowed to discuss this case, and does not give Kayla any information.
Ariel tries to call the burner cell phone from which she got the initial ransom call. She gets voicemail.
Pete Wagstaff, the reporter, gets a phone call from Myron Baizerman. Myron Baizerman works in the newspaper's research department. Myron tells Pete what he has found out about Ariel and her past as Laurel Turner.
Pete asks Myron to look into Ariel's husband, John's past as well. They conclude that she left NYC, her husband, and her opulent life and changed her name from Laurel to Ariel while she was pregnant with her son George.
Ariel gets a call back from the burner phone. They ask if she has the money, and she says not yet but hopefully soon. They hang up.

## Chapter 26
Nigel James (mystery man's lawyer), approaches Ariel with a draft agreement. In order to get the 2 million dollars, Ariel needs to sign the document. Nigel James encourages Ariel to contact her lawyer but she does not have time to get one. She decides to sign the agreement without contacting a lawyer.
Nicole Griffiths meets with Kayla Jefferson. Jefferson tracked the location of the prepaid phone (the phone that the kidnappers were using to contact Ariel). The phone was purchased in the Penn Quarter in Washington, DC. The phone was purchased just outside the US Capital, Supreme Court, and White House. Griffiths is now certain that John's disappearance is a threat to national security.
Ariel learns that the agreement could not be approved because it was not notarized. Pete Wagstaff, the reporter, offers to help Ariel get in touch with a notary. Ariel is apprehensive to accept Pete's help, but she has no choice. She has to accept Pete's help if she wants the 2 million dollars.
Nicole Griffits and Kayla Jefferson check John and Ariel's financial situation and phone records. They do not find anything suspicious. Nicole Griffiths and Kayla Jefferson speculate if there is a scheme going on.

## Chapter 27
Ariel looks over the new NDA and realizes it is an amendment to the old NDA, with the same terms, penalties, remedies, etc. She wishes to see her copy of the old NDA, so she calls Persephone (the young employee from her bookshop) to go to the store and find it. Ariel had hidden the old NDA, the thumb drive with her recorded conversation with the mystery man, the police report, a medical exam, and some tests inside the wall of her bookshop's basement. She asks Persephone to read to her the names and dates at the top of the NDA and to promise not to read the rest of the agreement. Ariel realizes that she must see Persephone as an ally and not an enemy or nuisance.
When she returns to the law firm's reception room, she suspects that Pete had read the new NDA that she left open. She has lost her trust in Pete and tells him to leave.
Meanwhile, Carolina Santos learns about Jorge Vicente, John's client who made dinner reservations. He is the chief financial officer of Os Canarios Enterprises. Santos plans to meet with Jorge. Nicole Griffiths asks Guido to hide microphones and cameras in Ariel's hotel room.

## Chapter 28
Ariel runs into trouble at the notary office when the notary points out that the document is for Laurel Turner, her old name that she has no identification for. Meanwhile, Jefferson and Griffiths go through John's
phone records, with nothing particularly interesting coming up except for John's sister, who lived in Morocco. Jefferson also has Griffiths listen to Ariel's call to Persephone.
Ariel calls Nigel James, and 20 minutes later (which felt like forever to Ariel), the notary finally signs the paperwork. She's worried about the notary being a leak, but at this point it is worth the risk. Meanwhile, Santos and Moniz are questioning Jorge Vicente, John's client. Jorge denies that the business would have caused enough ill-will or problems that would result in a kidnapping. He also notes how John is a strange person to
kidnap, considering he does not display wealth like other tourists. Jorge does mention that the visit was not 100% necessary. He also tells them that Ariel joining was not at his request, as Ariel has told the police.
Ariel thinks back to Jerry, the lawyer who helped her take in Fletcher the goat. Ariel paid him back for his help with Jerry by picking up a bar tab. Over drinks they joked and discussed that Ariel might have to sign an NDA for her goat theft. They talk about how an NDA doesn't erase facts, it just prevents certain people from discussing the facts.

## Chapter 29
Ariel is contacted by the front desk, who tell her a man named Guy Cicinelli is here to talk to her. She is immediately uncomfortable as the man asks to go into her room to talk and is second guessing herself when she
sees him remove his gun from his person. The man scans Ariel's fingerprints to confirm her identity before removing two million euros from his briefcase. Just in case, Guy offers her a weapon for her protection and
Ariel rejects the "gift" before he takes off.
Peter Wagstaff accepts that Ariel is likely to be angry at him for releasing her secrets. However, crossing people and endangering himself is part of his paycheck. How else is he supposed to uncover the truth?
Nicole Griffiths is running records on people who know or are related to Ariel and her husband. She finds it odd that John suddenly stopped talking to his sister three months ago and is curious about their relationship.
She is advised to continue following up on unresponsive contacts.
Detective Santos meets with the woman who called John "Luigi" and the woman admits that she met John at a club sometime last year, confirming that John did call himself Luigi at some point. Detective Santos is suspicious of John because this would be his second name change. Only people with secrets would change their names.
John's kidnapper calls Ariel on the burner phone to confirm that she has the money and gives her instructions on how to deliver the money to him.

## Chapter 30
Ariel has a mobile phone charging that she bought while buying the black duffel bags and the kidnapper instructs her to deliver the money.
Detective Santos is parked in the square where Ariel is supposed to drop off the ransom money with Detective Moniz. Their small talk turns into a conversation regarding Ariel and her current situation; Santos cannot help but feel bad for the woman.
The man tells Ariel to go into a bathroom in the nearby cafe where a new phone and set of headphones are waiting for her. She is told to ditch the "old" phone and to ride to the top of the Elevador de Santa Justa. Her anxiety is getting the best of her as she searches the crowded area for anyone suspicious, but for now it is just the normal crowd going in and out of clothing stores. As she gets off the elevator, the man tells her to get into a taxi that is waiting for her. She leaves the taxi once reaching the instructed destination and climbs over a gate just as someone else is trying to reach her.
Nicole Griffiths is at the store where Ariel bought the duffel bags and mobile phone, going through the security footage for any identifiers that may relate to Ariel.
Ariel almost gets hit by a car after climbing over the gate and walks into a bar towards a narrow alley in the back. The alley is narrow and someone turns around the corner, closing the space between them and Ariel smaller.

Pete Wagstaff is on the phone with Myron who notes that Peter's suspicions might be true.

## Chapter 31
Ariel hands the ransom money to a woman dressed in hippie clothing. Ariel tells the kidnapper on the phone that she only has 2 million euros, not 3 million. The kidnapper is initially disappointed and angry, but he still accepts the money. The kidnapper says that Ariel will see her husband soon.
Kayla Jefferson is doing research at the CIA. She finds video footage of someone buying the burner phone in DC. She cannot see the face of the woman, but she traces the license plate. Kayla contacts the car driver and finds out the name of the passenger who bought the phone. Kayla Jefferson tells Nicole Griffiths this new information. Nicole recognizes the name.
Pete Wagstaff is collaborating with Myron. They realize that George Pryce’s birth certificate does not list the father’s name. Wagstaff suspects that Ariel had George with someone who wasn’t her husband and that she signed an NDA to keep the paternity a secret in exchange for money. Ariel follows the kidnapper’s instructions and finds her husband, with his head covered by a bag.

## Chapter 32
Nicole Griffiths speaks privately with Tanner Snell, the ambassador, and informs him that something big involving Langley (the CIA headquarters) will come out over the next few hours or days.

Meanwhile, Ariel unbinds John. She is worried about him and finds herself shaking and sobbing. John reassures her that he is fine.

## Chapter 33
Ariel and John silently ride a taxi back to the hotel. Moniz and Santos approach them when they arrive. Ariel tells Moniz and Santos that the duffle bag was a decoy, and that she never gave the kidnappers money (which is a lie). The detectives allow John 30 minutes to shower and eat.
Ariel thinks back to when she was married to Bucky and living in New York. Ariel had a part-time freelance job reading manuscripts for a literary agent named Isabel Reed. Ariel considered her real job being Bucky’s wife. One of her responsibilities as his wife was attending parties, such as Charlie Wolfe’s lavish summer party. She avoided drinking at the party because she might be pregnant. Ariel thinks back to a conversation she had with Bucky before their engagement in which he shared that he wanted to have
a large family with her. Ariel did not want to risk ruining their relationship, so she chose to pretend that she wanted the same.

## Chapter 34
John and Ariel finally return to their hotel room in Lisbon. Ariel starts sobbing and John asks how she was able to secure his freedom. John asks Ariel where she got the money, and she starts crying again. There is an unspoken communication between the two, that confirms that she got the money from this “mystery man.” Ariel tells John that she had to threaten the mystery man to get the money.
The scene switches to Tanner Snell walking into Saxy Barnes’s office. Snell asks Barnes if he knows what Nicole Griffiths has gotten herself into, and Snell orders Barnes to find out more about the kidnapping. Back in their hotel room, Ariel is cleaning John’s wounds. When John is undressing his pants, he turns away.

This leads Ariel to think about her intimate history with Bucky. Ariel remembers how much she disliked spending time with Bucky’s friends, and that she felt like she was losing her identity when she was with Bucky. She remembers how during dinner, she went to the bathroom and pictured herself being pregnant. She remembers that when she had a miscarriage Bucky blamed her for it. As Ariel opens the door to leave the bathroom...

## Chapter 35
Now that it is the evening of John being back, John and Ariel are making phone calls - John to his assistant, boss, colleague, and client, and Ariel to her mom. Ariel’s mom reveals Pete Wagstaff called her asking about Bucky. This concerned her, but thankfully she did not have anything to say. The story flashes back to Ariel in the bathroom at a party when Charlie Wolfe, the host of the party and her husband’s most important business associate, barges his way in. Charlie is a rich man with a big ego who holds
a lot of power, and he just drunkenly walked in on Ariel in the bathroom.
Charlie locks the door and starts making advances toward Ariel. Ariel considers that she should scream, but then realizes if she did, no one would be on her side. Charlie owned all the people at the party, to them Ariel would just be a drunk social climber crying rape. Charlie unbuckles his belt.
Back in the present, in Portugal, Kayla Jefferson reveals to Griffiths that John used to be a member of the CIA.

## Chapter 36
Detective Moniz meets with Ariel and John. John recalls the details of his kidnapping discussing different details of his kidnappers and surroundings.
The story cuts to a flashback of Ariel’s past. Charlie is raping Ariel in the bathroom, triggering her fight or flight instincts. She thinks about Charlie’s gray hairs and his breath to distract herself from the rape.

Nicole Griffiths continues her investigation into John and his life as a CIA agent. She discovers he was in Operations and his first overseas assignment was in Belgrade. She continues her search with Jefferson and their suspicion of John grows. Then, she gets a call from Guido telling her to come to the hotel.
John continues recalling his side of the story. John says that he tried to overpower the man in the room down the hall from where he was being kept, by trying to body slam him into the wall. This altercation results in John getting punched in the face.
Ariel’s discomfort grows by the second and she wants this interrogation to end. Moniz continues to drill John; this time addressing the ransom money. John does not think that Ariel would have the money to pay the ransom and was expecting his employer to pay it off instead. As Moniz and John continue talking, Ariel can feel a knot in her stomach as if
something terrible is about to happen.
Charlie walks away from the bathroom as if nothing had happened as if Ariel was not just thrown into a situation she did not consent to. His speech is a little slurred, indicating that he was somewhat drunk, but not
drunk enough to misunderstand Ariel’s attempts to get him off of her.
At this point, it had been 20 years since Ariel’s last sexual assault and she understands that she was being gaslit by her perpetrator. It seems like Charlie does not truly understand the monster he really is, or feel remorse.

## Chapter 37
Moniz is still questioning Ariel and John. John explains that his kidnappers told him that his ransom was paid; he was going to be let go. Moniz asks if John remembers where he was held, and Ariel says that she can find the location. Ariel is protective of John and answers most questions for him, understanding that he is tired. 
Back in the past, Ariel is walking out of the bathroom after Charlie Wolfe raped her. She looks in the mirror, cleaning herself up. She remembers feeling nauseous and not knowing what to do. Does she tell someone? Does she call the police? Then what would happen to her? 
Ariel knew she needed to leave the party immediately. She could barely walk as she was so struck with nausea and shock. Ariel and Bucky carpool home with another couple, the Mitchums. Maggie Mitchum asks Ariel if she is okay, while Bucky doesn’t notice anything different in Ariel's demeanor. Ariel lies and says she is fine. 
Back to the present day, Saxby Barnes visits Pete Wagstaff to ask for information he found about Ariel and John. Barnes tells Wagstaff that Ariel visited the embassy late the previous night and used the 
secure-communications room. Wagstaff says he found that Ariel’s son’s birth certificate does not list a father. Wagstaff concludes that the person who provided the ransom and the father of Ariel’s son are the same person. 

## Chapter 38
Ariel refuses to tell Moniz where the ransom money came from because it would violate her NDA agreement. If Ariel breaks the agreement, she risks a huge financial loss, potential jail time, and her personal safety. Moniz says it is “lucky” that Ariel was able to collect such a high amount of money. 
Ariel contemplates her “luck.” In her previous life, people would think she was “lucky”. She was wealthy, had a large home, and could afford fancy things. However, “lucky” people are not sexually assaulted. 
In a flashback, Ariel drives Bucky and friends home after her sexual assault. Bucky is drunk and in no condition to hear about her rape. Ariel decides to take a pregnancy test to be absolutely clear who the father is if the test was positive. When she sees the result, she starts to cry. 
In the present, Moniz is questioning John. Moniz is wondering why John wanted to bring his wife on this specific trip to Lisbon. Moniz asks John when was the last time he spoke to his sister. John appears nervous to answer the questions. Ariel wants John to take a break from the police interrogation and get some sleep. John listens to Ariel and stops the interview. When they are about to leave, Santos asks if John’s sister is left-handed. 

## Chapter 39
Ariel and John both understand that the detectives suspect that John staged his own kidnapping. Although they had promised to meet them at the police station in the morning, Ariel buys plane tickets to go home the next morning. 
Meanwhile, Moniz and Santos discuss their plan to arrest John at the police station the next morning. They will call the embassy in the morning for their sign-off. They will also station a team at the hotel to ensure the couple does not run away. After the detectives leave, Pete Wagstaff (the journalist), who has been watching from a distance, leaves to work through his own list of suspects. 
That night, after John is asleep, Ariel wakes up and makes a phone call using a new disposable phone out on the balcony. Antonucci sees this and reports to Nicole Griffiths that he cannot identify who she is calling. Griffiths tells him that she and Kayla Jefferson will join him at the hotel. 
Ariel flashbacks to the morning after her rape. That morning, she reflects on how quiet and “perfect” her life is and the costs she has had to pay to maintain it–dieting, practicing good manners, but now rape? She cannot accept that. 

## Chapter 40
Ariel and John leave the hotel at midnight with nothing except the clothes they are wearing, their phones, and their passports. Meanwhile, Wagstaff is in a cocaine-induced frenzy, scrutinizing every detail he knows about Ariel’s case. There is not much about Ariel when she was Laurel, except for some digitized photos and memberships. He notes that Laurel and Ariel seem like completely different people. Wagstaff has organized one side of his table to contain information about Laurel Turner’s life and friends, the other about contemporary DC people. He plans to eventually narrow them down and look for overlap. 
John and Ariel get into a taxi to a market, though Ariel notices they are being followed. At the market, they ditch their phones and get back into the taxi, hoping to lose their tail. Griffiths, Jefferson, and the Lisbon police are still following them, and Griffiths is certain she cannot let the Portuguese police arrest John and Ariel. John and Ariel get out of the taxi and into the car of the person who drove them when they arrived, and Ariel gives him directions as they go. Griffiths and Jefferson lose them. They think about the places they could have gone, considering Morocco, where John’s sister lives. Antonucci questions why they can’t just let them go. Griffiths responds that it is a matter of national security. 

## Chapter 41
While they’re in the car, Ariel tells Bucky that Charlie raped her. Ariel wants to go to the police, but Bucky is apprehensive. Ariel is hurt that Bucky is questioning her timeline, and she gets out of the car and leaves him. Meanwhile, Pete Wagstaff is attempting to find out who the mystery man is. Pete is high on cocaine while he is narrowing his list down. 
Nicole Griffith calls the CIA’s Chief of Lisbon, Jim Farragut. Jim wants an update on the situation. Nicole tells Jim that Ariel and John are still missing and that everything she knows is circumstantial at this point, nothing is known for fact. Nicole says that the worst case would be the CIA hiding this information and doing nothing, and another country (China, Russia, North Korea) finding out and using it as blackmail. Jim also wanted to know if this situation would be stopped if Ariel “disappeared”. Nicole says that, even if the CIA attempts to “silence” Ariel, a reporter knows, and the truth will always get out. 
Pete Wagstaff has narrowed down the list to four people who live in DC and who lived in NYC a decade and a half ago. One name stands out on the list. 

## Chapter 42
In the early dawn, John and Ariel are at the Seville airport, ready to leave Lisbon. John suggests they split at the airport to avoid suspicion since they are two Americans with no luggage. With no direct flights across the Atlantic, Ariel books a ticket with a layover in Brussels. 
The story flashbacks to Ariel the morning after her conversation with Bucky about Charlie. She goes to the police station and is not fond of the questions she has to answer because they all presume that she was at fault. Ariel does not want to report Charlie’s assault because of his social status. However, she needs to report for the others in similar situations. Justice for sexual assault is an ongoing war with women as the casualties. 
In the present, Kayla Jefferson finds out that Ariel is on her way to New York with a connection in Brussels. Working with Nicole Griffiths, she tries to track down the couple before they leave Europe. With the urgency to follow their lead, Nicole wakes up Antonucci for a flight to Spain.
Without John, Ariel can’t help but feel vulnerable. She makes a mistake when stating that her bags were stolen at “our” hotel, implying that she is supposed to be traveling with someone. Two policemen approach her. 
Persephone is at a bar with her friend Kirsten and hands her the report of Laurel Turner’s case, and the shock settles in Kirsten as she learns who the perpetrator was.

## Chapter 43
Ariel does not know how to explain her situation to the officers at the airport. After all, her story is hard to comprehend if the person was not deeply involved in the investigation. In order to appease the airport police, she hands them Moniz’s and Santos’s business cards on the table before telling them that she needed to leave to catch her flight. 
In the past, Ariel meets with Charlie at a bar in New York City where she tells him that she is pregnant with his child. Charlie is in disbelief at the news as Ariel is sure that the child is his. She is determined to see him in jail as a result of his crime. 
The airport security have no success in contacting the Lisbon police, but they have their suspicions that Ariel is some sort of criminal. Meanwhile, Nicole Griffiths and Antonucci are on a helicopter flying towards the airport. She is hoping to catch up to Ariel before her flight leaves. 
Pete Wagstaff has found digital archives of Ariel’s life as Laurel Turner. It seems too easy to find witnesses that can attest to Ariel’s previous marriage. 
Charlie demands Ariel to unlock her phone and to remove the battery, and he also examines her to make sure that there is no wire on her. He demands to know what Ariel really wants out of this, but she just wants the whole world to know what kind of man Charlie Wolfe really is. Charlie is willing to give her money in order to keep her mouth shut, in which she does accept 3 million US dollars and sign an NDA. While Ariel was not
expecting true justice out of this exchange, it would become handy for the day that she did want it. 

## Chapter 44
The Spanish airport security cannot locate John. He did not buy a plane ticket and did not pass through security. 
The airport security calls Detectives Moniz and Santos to verify Ariel’s story. Santos calls Moniz and convinces him that they should not share their suspicions or else they would have to admit they lost Ariel and John. Furthermore, Santos explains that the crimes they have committed were fundamentally American, and so they should not be a matter of concern to the Lisbon policemen. When Moniz calls back the Spanish airport security, he encourages them to let Ariel go freely. 
Ariel makes it to her flight just on time. As she sits, she notices that a man speaks to a flight attendant who makes eye contact with Ariel. At the same time, another woman boards the plane, and Ariel recognizes her. She thinks to herself, they have come for her… 
Meanwhile, Pete Wagstaff calls his boss, Judy, and informs her that Ariel just extorted ransom money from Charlie Wolfe, the next U.S. president. 
In this chapter, we learn more about Ariel after leaving Bucky. She initially stays at a hotel until Bucky cancels their credit card. Bucky has tried calling her to reconcile, but Ariel cannot forgive him. 

## Chapter 45
Griffiths, Antonucci, and a man Ariel does not know take Ariel “someplace safe.” Meanwhile, at the airport, John walks around the terminal, thinking about how he watched Ariel get dragged off her plane. He buys a prepaid 
cell and a change of clothes. Ariel and the officers go into an apartment, where a video camera is waiting, and the officers to question her. They ask for specific details about how Ariel and her husband met, their first few dates, and their intimate details. We learn that Ariel knows about John’s
name change but does not know about his previous drug arrest or his sister’s suicide attempts. Griffiths asks Ariel if she told John the father of her child is Charlie Wolfe (an assumption Griffiths has made). Ariel wonders if it is possible that the CIA woman knows George’s father for certain, which she assumes is no. As the only one who knows who George’s father is, Ariel feels the power shift in her favor. Griffiths suggests that John set Ariel up. She tells her theory of the events, noting that she paid 2 million euros. Ariel realizes only the kidnappers and John knew about the 2 million, so how did Griffiths know? Griffiths also mentions that John bought a motorcycle with cash a few months ago, suggesting that it is similar to the one that the kidnapper used. 

## Chapter 46
Griffiths interrogates Ariel and will not let Ariel leave before she answers some of these questions. Griffiths has two suspicions: either (1) it is not a risk to national security and John just wanted to scam Ariel to get the money for himself, or (2) John could be working with a hostile government and is a threat to national security. Griffiths’ goal is to scare Ariel, put doubt in her head, and then let her go to see what she does in fear. 
John goes into a bathroom to change into different clothes and calls a car. Kayla Jefferson spots John on security footage wearing his new clothes. She sees John in a white car but then loses sight of John. Jefferson tells her boss that she lost John. 
Griffiths shows Ariel the photograph of John getting into the white car with a woman wearing a scarf. Ariel tells Griffiths that she does not recognize this woman. 
Griffiths makes a call to her boss, Farragut. Griffiths tells him that she does not think Ariel is involved with this scheme. Griffiths tells her boss that John has the training and skillset to plan and execute a covert active measure and may be working for a hostile government.
John is driving away with the driver. John should feel better–he is driving away with 2 million dollars and the woman he loves. But John does not feel happy. 

## Chapter 47
Ariel is finally back at the airport with Griffiths still asking questions. Meanwhile, Wagstaff is on the phone with Tory Wasserman (Ariel’s rich friend) asking about Laurel and Bucky’s marriage. Tory reveals that Charlie has a reputation for being forceful and rumors about sexual assault. Tory admits (off the record) that Charlie Wolfe, who is about to become vice president and maybe eventually president, is “definitely a rapist.” 
Meanwhile, Griffiths calls the deputy CIA director, Jim Farragut. She gives him the information she found on John’s sister and a recent tweet about Ariel. The news is starting to spread. 
Finally, Ariel arrives back home and reunites with George and her dogs. 

## Chapter 48
Ariel is home again, and the sun is rising after a sleepless night. Ariel’s mom asks where John is, and Ariel does not tell her the truth. 
Kayla Jefferson, of the CIA, shows Nicole Griffiths a video of Lucy Reitwovski (John’s sister) walking into a bank in Geneva and leaving without the bag. The two CIA agents start looking for signs of John and Lucy in Geneva, contacting hotels and transportation stations. There was no footage of John. 
Ariel tells her son George that there would soon be information coming out about her. She tells George that she was sexually assaulted by Charlie Wolfe, a long time ago before George was born. 
George asks if Charlie Wolfe is his father, and Ariel says no. Ariel explains that she lied to her son when she said his father was from a sperm bank. She explains that George’s father Bucky is not a horrible person, but that
Charlie Wolfe is. Ariel says that Charlie thinks that he is George’s father, because Ariel had lied to Charlie about this to blackmail him for money. Her first multimillion-dollar lie.

## Chapter 49
Nicole Griffiths speaks with a woman who worked with Lucy (John’s sister) when she was 16-years-old. She recalls the night Charlie Wolfe raped Lucy. The woman shares that Charlie was a law student and that his parents paid Lucy $10,000 in exchange for an NDA. 
Meanwhile, Ariel reads a tabloid article about Charlie Wolfe, revealing allegations of harassment and rumors of assault. She notices that one of the authors is Kirsten Tabor, a local writer who is close friends with Persephone. Ariel realizes that Persephone must have read the NDA and told Kirsten everything. 
Pete Wagstaff calls Ariel. He shares what he has gathered: something happened between Ariel and Charlie Wolfe that resulted in her pregnancy; she agreed to an out-of-court settlement in exchange for silence; when John was kidnapped, Ariel threatened to expose Charlie Wolfe to coerce him into paying the ransom. Ariel refuses to comment. Finally, Pete directly asks Ariel if Charlie Wolfe sexually assaulted her, and Ariel hangs up. Ariel is relieved someone has discovered the truth without her breaking the NDA. 

## Chapter 50
Ariel gets a phone call from Steph, who has a role in Charlie Wolfe’s vice presidential confirmation. Steph asks Ariel whether she ever went by the name Laurel Turner. When Ariel refuses to answer, Steph tells Ariel that she may be subpoenaed to testify before Congress. Ariel hangs up. A
congressional lawyer identified the lawyer in the Caymans who paid Ariel and many other women. 
Meanwhile in Portugal, the Lisbon chief of station informs Farragut of another Charlie Wolfe case involving a 16-year-old girl. The director of central intelligence tells Farragut that they should privately take Ariel into custody. 
Ariel picks up George from the last day of summer camp and reflects how the children seem so young, innocent, and safe. Ariel gets bombarded by reporters with questions as her story gains attention. Ariel doesn’t comment or respond to anyone and acknowledges she will have to get a lawyer. Ariel is at home, her dogs are barking, and she hears an intruder. She turns the lights off and takes George upstairs. George is scared, and Ariel calls 911. 

## Chapter 51
Ariel and George run out of the house and escape to the potting shed. A man yells to Ariel that she is safe now, but she is not going to put George at risk without being sure. She leaves George in the shed and brings a baseball bat with her to evaluate the situation. CIA security guards have taken down paparazzi on her porch. It was just paparazzi. 

## Chapter 52
Ariel watches TV and sees that Charlie Wolfe’s congressional hearings have been postponed as recent news has come out about Charlie Wolfe’s payout to Ariel Pryce because of John’s kidnapping in Lisbon. They reveal that the original source was a journalist named Pete Wagstaff who put the pieces together. Reporters bombard Ariel and camp in front of her house, waiting for the statement she will never make. Charlie Wolfe has also been absent from the news and public. She sees that there are multiple women accusing him of rape.
Charlie Wolfe resigns as the Secretary of Treasury, and investigations on him have been opened. His company’s stocks and net worth plummet, and his wife takes the kids and leaves him. His life unravels. 
Ariel goes into town, and a random woman calls her names. Ariel is stunned. 
António Moniz and Carolina Santos see Ariel on the TV. 
Ariel finds Jerry, her small town lawyer, at the bar. Jerry acknowledges things must be hard for Ariel right now. He asks how John is. She thinks about how she hasn’t heard from him at all. He commends her for not breaking her NDA. He comments how Ariel doesn’t drink much. She feels threatened, and he confesses he has a drinking problem. He asks if she understands that she has angered one of the most powerful people in the world. She does not say anything. He tells her to be very careful about everything, forever. 

## Epilogue
Ariel sends George to boarding school for his physical safety and education. Ariel boards a plane and heads to a resort. She hears a knock at her door–it is John. Ariel reveals that “everything went off exactly as planned.” 
Charlie Wolfe raped John’s sister, Lucy, when she was 16. Charlie had Lucy sign an NDA in exchange for $10,000. Lucy was forced into silence, but John wanted justice and more money for his sister. John contacted Ariel in hopes that they could work together to destroy Charlie’s career and make him suffer. After meeting with Jeffery (Ariel’s lawyer), she had an idea. Together, John and Ariel created a scheme to destroy Charlie’s reputation. Lucy, who was a criminal in Morocco, was in on the scheme too. Lucy was the one who disabled various security cameras, drove the kidnapping car, dressed as a hippie and took the ransom money, and manufactured the social media attention on Charlie. She choreographed
every detail of the plan. Within the act of pretending to be married, Ariel wonders if she developed feelings for John.
