[[page: I Must Betray You,, Wen,, Book Summaries, /]]
# I Must Betray You by Ruta Sepetys 
## Chapter 1
On a gray Friday in October, Cristian and his best friend Luca see a large sign in their school that reads, “New Men of Romania: Long Live Communism- the bright future of mankind.” The two continue with their day more interested in talking to their female classmates and being dismissed from school. Cristian, the narrator, discusses the strict rules of the school and the society. Cristian hints at his desire to rebel against communist rule; losing his hairbrush, his interest in poetry and philosophy, and that he studies English. Cristian thinks that he can keep all this a secret. Ending the chapter with the line- “I was an idiot. I just didn’t know it yet.” 
## Chapter 2
Cristian enters the school office and encounters an intimidating stranger, likely a member of Romania's secret police- “The Securitate Agents”. The man has a file with Cristian's photo and claims to know something about him. There is an oppressive atmosphere as shown by a portrait of the Communist leader, Ceauşescu. Cristian realizes he may be in serious trouble, and the stranger's words leave him fearful for his safety- “And I know what you’ve done.” 
## Chapters 1 & 2 Discussion Questions: 
* What were your initial thoughts about the Romanian society in the first two chapters? 
* What do you think Cristian has done? 
## Chapter 3
Cristian faces questioning by a member of the secret police who accuses him of illegal activities. He tells Cristian that he knows about the illegal stamp Cristian exchanged with an American teenager for foreign money. The secret police know that Cristian’s mom is a housekeeper for the American Diplomat’s family. Cristian denies that he was aware of the foreign money he accepted but the agent proposes a compromise. The compromise is that Cristian must spy on the American diplomat's family to avoid consequences. The agent mentions Cristian’s sick grandfather, Bunu, with cancer. He asks him to be a spy with the code name “Oscar.” In return, the police will provide medicine for his grandfather. Cristian is now a 17-year-old spy to get information about the American Diplomats. 
## Chapter 4 
Cristian begins to feel guilty. He doesn’t know how he will keep this secret from his family. He knows he could fool his parents as they are busy and constantly worried. But he knows that he can’t fool his grandfather, Bunu, or his sister, Cici. He then makes up a story about university exams. He could lie and tell his family that he had been so busy studying. Cristian then begins to worry that Bunu will figure it out. He thinks about how his grandfather would think he is a traitor. The chapter ends with Cristian hearing footsteps behind him- he is being followed.
## Chapters 3 & 4 Discussion Questions: 
* If you were Cristian and you were told to spy on someone else, what would you do? Would you accept the offer or refuse? 
* Do you think it is worth it to go against your moral compass in exchange for medicine for an ill family member? 
* Have you ever had to keep a big secret from your family/close friends? 
## Chapter 5
Cristian comes to realize that the person behind him is Liliana Pavel. Liliana is the girl Cristian has been trying to talk to at school. He describes her as quiet, smart, mysterious, and clever. Cristian is delighted to be walking home with her. They have a conversation about the State-controlled shop they are walking by where people are cold and huddled together while they wait for leftover food. Liliana reminisces about when Bucharest was full of trees, birds, and beautiful buildings. But now, Bucharest is cold, dark, and dim. Under the strict rule of the communists, the city is not the same as it used to be. Cristian writes in his notebook about The Aplaudacii, the followers of Ceauşescu, calling them bootlickers, butt-kissers, and fawners. The chapter ends with Liliana grabbing Cristian’s arms and crying out, “Cristian! Oh-no!” 
## Chapter 6
Cristian and Liliana are interrupted when Liliana sees a young girl being attacked by stray dogs. Stray dogs are common in Romania, often hunting in packs to find food. Cristian, Liliana, and a few bystanders step in to rescue the girl. Afterward, Liliana and Cristian walk the girl back to her apartment. On their walk home, the two run into Starfish, the American teenager whom Cristian often buys Western contraband from. Starfish invites the two to a “video night,” a gathering where people watch VHS tapes. Cristian accepts the invite for both of them and Starfish leaves. Liliana asks if she could attend the party with Cristian, and Cristian becomes suspicious of her motives. 
## Chapters 5 & 6 Discussion Questions: 
* What do you think of Lilianna? 
* Do you trust her motives in just wanting to go to the party with Cristian? 
## Chapter 7
As Cristian climbs the steps to his family’s apartment, he comments on all his different neighbors and how everyone lives in identical apartments. The building administrators report back to the communist party, and Bunu thinks that the apartments are bugged. Because of this, everyone in Cristian’s home speaks in whispers. Cristian’s mother is particularly paranoid about people listening to them and sometimes explodes in distress. Bunu, on the other hand, refuses to whisper and ignores the communist rules, insisting on having an illegal sofa in their apartment. Cristian’s
family does their best to create private spaces for each person, with Cristian sleeping in the closet. As he continues to climb the stairs to his apartment, Cristian realizes who turned him in to the secret police. 
## Chapter 8
Cristian arrives home late. His mother asks him where he was and what happened to his coat, which tore while rescuing the girl from the stray dogs. Cristian goes to check on Bunu, whose health is declining. Despite this, he still cracks jokes with Cristian about the communist party. 
Bunu begins to have a coughing fit, and Cristian’s mother dismisses him to go count the Kents - cigarettes that the family trades as currency. Other items in the family’s bribe inventory include soap and whiskey. Cici is a seamstress who works at a textile factory and sometimes trades her work for contraband as well. Bunu continues to cough and begins retching. Cristian knows that his pain is temporary, as he will soon get medicine in exchange for information. Cristian then considers spying on the agent and communists that he is working for. 
## Chapters 7 & 8 Discussion Questions: 
* Who do you think turned Cristian in to the police? 
* What do you think of Cristian’s idea to spy on the agents he is working for? 
## Chapter 9
At school, Cristian confirms with Liliana that they will meet at 9:00 that night to attend video night. After school, Cristian walks home and overhears a woman in his building talking about him. She comments on how he is quiet and handsome, but also that he speaks English and doesn’t comb his hair. When Cristian arrives at this apartment, his parents are at work, Bunu is sleeping, and Cici is sewing. Cristian reflects on his sister, noting that while she is suspicious and watchful, she is also beautiful and kind. Cristian can see that Cici has been crying and asks why she is upset. Cici puts a finger to her mouth to cue Cristian to be quiet. 
## Chapter 10
Cici covers the telephone with a pillow and a book. There are rumors that there are listening devices in the phones. Cici begins to cry into Cristian’s arms and tells him that she underwent an examination at her job today. Women are subjected to reproductive health exams to determine if they are pregnant or not. The purpose is to promote reproduction, which the communist party believes will grow their society. Cristian describes these exams as disgusting and humiliating. As Cici cries, Cristian tells her a communist joke to make her smile, which it does. She makes him promise to never change. Cristian promises, feeling guilty about lying to her now that he is a spy. 
## Chapters 9 & 10 Discussion Questions: 
* Have you ever overheard someone else talking about you? What was your reaction?
* How does Cristian comfort Cici?
