[[page: I Must Betray You,, Wen,, Book Summaries, /]]
# I Must Betray You by Ruta Sepetys for Ronlyn
## Chapter 1
On a gray Friday in October, Cristian and his best friend Luca see a large sign in their school that reads, “New Men of Romania: Long Live Communism- the bright future of mankind.” The two continue with their day more interested in talking to their female classmates and being dismissed from school. Cristian, the narrator, discusses the strict rules of the school and the society. Cristian hints at his desire to rebel against communist rule; losing his hairbrush, his interest in poetry and philosophy, and that he studies English. Cristian thinks that he can keep all this a secret. Ending the chapter with the line- “I was an idiot. I just didn’t know it yet.” 
## Chapter 2
Cristian enters the school office and encounters an intimidating stranger, likely a member of Romania's secret police- “The Securitate Agents”. The man has a file with Cristian's photo and claims to know something about him. There is an oppressive atmosphere as shown by a portrait of the Communist leader, Ceauşescu. Cristian realizes he may be in serious trouble, and the stranger's words leave him fearful for his safety- “And I know what you’ve done.” 
## Chapters 1 & 2 Discussion Questions: 
* What were your initial thoughts about the Romanian society in the first two chapters? 
* What do you think Cristian has done? 
## Chapter 3
Cristian faces questioning by a member of the secret police who accuses him of illegal activities. He tells Cristian that he knows about the illegal stamp Cristian exchanged with an American teenager for foreign money. The secret police know that Cristian’s mom is a housekeeper for the American Diplomat’s family. Cristian denies that he was aware of the foreign money he accepted but the agent proposes a compromise. The compromise is that Cristian must spy on the American diplomat's family to avoid consequences. The agent mentions Cristian’s sick grandfather, Bunu, with cancer. He asks him to be a spy with the code name “Oscar.” In return, the police will provide medicine for his grandfather. Cristian is now a 17-year-old spy to get information about the American Diplomats. 
## Chapter 4 
Cristian begins to feel guilty. He doesn’t know how he will keep this secret from his family. He knows he could fool his parents as they are busy and constantly worried. But he knows that he can’t fool his grandfather, Bunu, or his sister, Cici. He then makes up a story about university exams. He could lie and tell his family that he had been so busy studying. Cristian then begins to worry that Bunu will figure it out. He thinks about how his grandfather would think he is a traitor. The chapter ends with Cristian hearing footsteps behind him- he is being followed.
## Chapters 3 & 4 Discussion Questions
* If you were Cristian and you were told to spy on someone else, what would you do? Would you accept the offer or refuse? 
* Do you think it is worth it to go against your moral compass in exchange for medicine for an ill family member? 
* Have you ever had to keep a big secret from your family/close friends? 
## Chapter 5
Cristian comes to realize that the person behind him is Liliana Pavel. Liliana is the girl Cristian has been trying to talk to at school. He describes her as quiet, smart, mysterious, and clever. Cristian is delighted to be walking home with her. They have a conversation about the State-controlled shop they are walking by where people are cold and huddled together while they wait for leftover food. Liliana reminisces about when Bucharest was full of trees, birds, and beautiful buildings. But now, Bucharest is cold, dark, and dim. Under the strict rule of the communists, the city is not the same as it used to be. Cristian writes in his notebook about The Aplaudacii, the followers of Ceauşescu, calling them bootlickers, butt-kissers, and fawners. The chapter ends with Liliana grabbing Cristian’s arms and crying out, “Cristian! Oh-no!” 
## Chapter 6
Cristian and Liliana are interrupted when Liliana sees a young girl being attacked by stray dogs. Stray dogs are common in Romania, often hunting in packs to find food. Cristian, Liliana, and a few bystanders step in to rescue the girl. Afterward, Liliana and Cristian walk the girl back to her apartment. On their walk home, the two run into Starfish, the American teenager whom Cristian often buys Western contraband from. Starfish invites the two to a “video night,” a gathering where people watch VHS tapes. Cristian accepts the invite for both of them and Starfish leaves. Liliana asks if she could attend the party with Cristian, and Cristian becomes suspicious of her motives. 
## Chapters 5 & 6 Discussion Questions: 
* What do you think of Lilianna? 
* Do you trust her motives in just wanting to go to the party with Cristian? 
## Chapter 7
As Cristian climbs the steps to his family’s apartment, he comments on all his different neighbors and how everyone lives in identical apartments. The building administrators report back to the communist party, and Bunu thinks that the apartments are bugged. Because of this, everyone in Cristian’s home speaks in whispers. Cristian’s mother is particularly paranoid about people listening to them and sometimes explodes in distress. Bunu, on the other hand, refuses to whisper and ignores the communist rules, insisting on having an illegal sofa in their apartment. Cristian’s
family does their best to create private spaces for each person, with Cristian sleeping in the closet. As he continues to climb the stairs to his apartment, Cristian realizes who turned him in to the secret police. 
## Chapter 8
Cristian arrives home late. His mother asks him where he was and what happened to his coat, which tore while rescuing the girl from the stray dogs. Cristian goes to check on Bunu, whose health is declining. Despite this, he still cracks jokes with Cristian about the communist party. 
Bunu begins to have a coughing fit, and Cristian’s mother dismisses him to go count the Kents - cigarettes that the family trades as currency. Other items in the family’s bribe inventory include soap and whiskey. Cici is a seamstress who works at a textile factory and sometimes trades her work for contraband as well. Bunu continues to cough and begins retching. Cristian knows that his pain is temporary, as he will soon get medicine in exchange for information. Cristian then considers spying on the agent and communists that he is working for. 
## Chapters 7 & 8 Discussion Questions
* Who do you think turned Cristian in to the police? 
* What do you think of Cristian’s idea to spy on the agents he is working for? 
## Chapter 9
At school, Cristian confirms with Liliana that they will meet at 9:00 that night to attend video night. After school, Cristian walks home and overhears a woman in his building talking about him. She comments on how he is quiet and handsome, but also that he speaks English and doesn’t comb his hair. When Cristian arrives at this apartment, his parents are at work, Bunu is sleeping, and Cici is sewing. Cristian reflects on his sister, noting that while she is suspicious and watchful, she is also beautiful and kind. Cristian can see that Cici has been crying and asks why she is upset. Cici puts a finger to her mouth to cue Cristian to be quiet. 
## Chapter 10
Cici covers the telephone with a pillow and a book. There are rumors that there are listening devices in the phones. Cici begins to cry into Cristian’s arms and tells him that she underwent an examination at her job today. Women are subjected to reproductive health exams to determine if they are pregnant or not. The purpose is to promote reproduction, which the communist party believes will grow their society. Cristian describes these exams as disgusting and humiliating. As Cici cries, Cristian tells her a communist joke to make her smile, which it does. She makes him promise to never change. Cristian promises, feeling guilty about lying to her now that he is a spy. 
## Chapters 9 & 10 Discussion Questions: 
* Have you ever overheard someone else talking about you? What was your reaction?
* How does Cristian comfort Cici?
## Chapter 11
Cristian anxiously waits for Liliana. Lilianna opens her coat pocket and tells Cristian she got him something special. She pulls out a Coca-Cola. Cristian is shocked. She explains how her dad got it at work and gave it to her for Christmas. Cristian can’t believe he gets to drink a real Coke, just like in the movies. The pair go to a secret spot on the side of Liliana’s building so they can crack it open. They open it and begin to laugh. They love the taste and are bursting with happiness. Cristian explains that if he could have anything, it would be a banana. He confesses that his mom got a banana shampoo from the black market and he tasted it. Liliana smiles and laughs. Cristian describes this moment as perfection- Until it’s too late. The chapter ends with an informer report turning in Cristian and Lilianna for engaging in discussion and sharing of illegal items. 
## Chapter 12
The two can’t stop laughing as they have a sugar rush from the Coke. They arrive at the forbidden video night. Over thirty people are sitting crammed in the room. Cristian describes the nervous energy in the room knowing that the secret police could burst through the doors at any moment. They notice that the audio of the video is replacing the swear words and all English words are replaced with Romanian words. Cristian notices that the people in the movie have choices and wonders what having choices is like. He also notices that people look at each other for long periods of time without moving their eyes away. Cristian is fascinated and describes the ease between the actors. He ends the chapter by sharing his worries that he may be standing next to an informer - Liliana. 
## Chapters 11 & 12 Discussion Questions: 
* If you were in this strict society, what would be the food/or drink that you would dream of having? 
* What might make you think that Liliana is the informer? 
## Chapter 13
The chapter begins with an introduction to the Van Dorn family. Dan Van Dorn is the son of the American diplomat Nick Van Dorn. Cristian’s mother cleans the house of the Van Dorn Family who arrived in Romania four months ago. As Cristian waits for his mother, he sees Dan working and asks what he is doing. Dan explains that he is writing his college essay about Romania but it doesn’t matter because his Dad got into Princeton. His dad will arrange for him to go to Princeton. This concept puzzles Cristian. Cristian gets a look at the essay and sees the harsh words and comical mentions about the Romanian people. The words from the essay circle Cristian’s head- human rights abuse, non-conformists, propaganda, ignorance. Cristian brings up the jokes about the Romanian people to Bunu. Bunu tells him to never repeat those jokes and no matter what happens to never trust anyone. Cristian reflects on these words stating that Bunu’s words are ringing so true.
## Chapter 14
Cristian, again, is at the Van Dorns. Dan invites Cristian to come to his room to see his new stamps. Cristian is amazed by the size of the room, his posters of Bon Jovi, and his Dallas Cowboys football jersey. Cristian scans the room and makes mental notes of everything in the 
room to report. Cristians notices his leather jacket, a Walkman, and his Air Jordans. The chapter ends with Cristian’s thought- Dan Van Doorn knew he was under surveillance. 
## Chapter 14 Discussion Questions:
* What stood out to you about Dan Van Doorns’s college essay about Romania? 
* What do you think about the relationship between Cristian and Dan? 
## Chapter 15 
After Dan references that there are communist bugs in the light fixture, Cristian becomes paranoid. He questions if there are light fixture bugs in his family’s apartment. Dan goes to greet his parents who have just arrived home and Cristian follows. Cristian meets Nick Van Dorn, Dan’s father, and Mrs. Van Dorn, Cristian’s mother. As they talk, Cristian begins to look around to take notes for Agent Paddle Hands. He notices how affectionate the Van Dorn parents are with each other. 
On their walk home, Cristian’s mother discusses how Cristian doesn’t have to walk her home every time. Cristian comments on how Mr. Van Dorn looked tired, and his mother replies that Mr. Van Dorn is a “good man.” Christian wonders how his mother would know that if she is just their maid. 
## Chapter 16
Cristian wants to get a gift for Liliana to thank her for the Coke. He goes to Cici hoping that she will have something for him to give Liliana. When Cici questions why Cristian needs a gift, he tells her about Liliana and the Coke. Cici is shocked. She offers him tampoons to give to Liliana, as menstrual products are limited in Romania. Cristian refuses them. Cici then offers to give him chocolates. In return, Christian tells her that he will give her a US dollar. Cici is displeased by Crisitian’s engagement in illegal activity: drinking a Coke and possessing foreign currency. 
Cristian then goes to check on Bunu. He helps Bunu walk to the balcony to get some fresh air. Bunu reflects on how Romania didn’t used to be so terrible. He believes that things are worse now because of propaganda. Even preschoolers are being taught to worship Nicolae Ceaușescu. Bunu then asks Cristian if he has a girlfriend, as he overheard Crisitian and Cici’s conversation. Cristian is worried that the microphones in the light fixtures also heard his conversation.
## Chapters 15 & 16 Discussion Questions
* What were your impressions of the Van Dorns? 
* Why do you think Cristian’s mother defended Mr. Van Dorn? 
## Chapter 17
Cristian and Luca are sent to a field to collect produce for Romania as part of “compulsory volunteering” - mandatory physical labor that Romanians must participate in. Cristian reveals that he believes Luca informed on him. The two have been friends since they were 10. Cristian describes Luca as smart and kind, but somewhat suspicious. As Cristian reflects on Luca, he begins to realize that their friendship may be over now. When the boys arrive at the field, Cristian is shocked. On television, Romania’s crop fields are shown to be lush and full of fresh produce. This field is full of weeds and flies. Fury begins to take over Cristian as he realizes that his best friend and his country have both betrayed him. Cristian punches Luca. 
## Chapter 18
At school, students are avoiding Cristian after seeing what he did to Luca’s face. The School Director approaches Cristian and hands him a piece of paper with a location - Cristian must go meet with Agent Paddle Hands. Cristian decides that he won’t reveal too many details to Agent Paddle Hands. At their meeting, Cristian is asked to draw a layout of the Van Dorn’s apartment and to identify what electronic devices they have. Cristian shares some superficial details with Agent Paddle Hands, such as that Dan likes American football. When asked about the parents, Cristian provides little information, stating, “They interact like parents.” Agent Paddle Hands tells Cristain to return to the Van Dorn’s apartment on Thursday, as that is when his mother is working next. He wants Cristian to spend more time with Dan and to find Mr. Van Dorn’s desk, which Cristian has already seen, but did not tell Agent Paddle Hands about. Cristian asks about medicine for Bunu, but Agent Paddle Hands dismisses him. Before he leaves, Cristian has to write down everything he told Agent Paddle Hands. He writes a simple list and signs his name, trying to disguise his handwriting. The chapter ends with Cristian taking note of his observations of Agent Paddle Hands: he smokes, he has no wedding ring, and he appears to be a fan of the Romanian soccer team. 
## Chapter 17 & 18 Discussion Questions
* Have you ever felt betrayed by a friend? 
* If you were Cristian, would you answer Agent Paddle Hands’s questions accurately? Or would you withhold the truth? 
## Official Report: Top Secret 28 Oct. 1989
This Securitate report reveals that Agent Paddle Hands knows that Cristian, “Thinks he has the upper hand.” The report describes Cristian’s notes on the Van Dorn’s and that Cristian should attempt to accompany Dan to the American library and try to locate Mr. Van Dorn’s desk. It also
includes information on Cristian’s physical fight with Luca. The report ends with a recommendation to increase surveillance. 
* NOTE: In this report, Cristian is referred to as Oscar, as this is his spy name assigned by the Securitate. 
## Chapter 19
The winter months are approaching and Cristian is worried about the heat. Bunu thinks that the government uses electricity as a form of control, as the power goes on and off without warning. Luca and Cristian are still avoiding each other, but this doesn’t seem to bother Cristian. After school, Cristian looks for Liliana. He sees her outside her apartment building. She comments on how he should feed the stray dog outside of his apartment building. When he asks her if she has something to feed the dog, she answers, “Yes,” and leads him to her apartment. Her parents and brother are at work. Inside, Cristian gives Liliana the chocolate bar he got from Cici. As they two eat the chocolate, they talk about music, astrology, and eye color. Cristian brushes back Liliana’s hair to see the color of her eyes, and the two join in an embrace. They stay holding each other in the darkness. 
## Official Report & Chapter 19 Discussion Questions: 
* Do you think Cristian should make up with Luca? Why or why not?
## Chapter 20
Cristian wakes up early in the freezing cold temperature. He discusses how his family splits up their time waiting in line for the local shop. The conditions for waiting in line are harsh, frigid, and crowded. Cristian wonders if there will be any food left at the shop by the time he gets there. He thinks of how his father came home from waiting in line with just one can of expired beans. Cristian describes his father as quiet all the time. He thinks back to when Bunu told him that the communists have everyone brainwashed to stand in line for hours for rotten food. An older man taps Cristian’s shoulder and asks how Bunu is doing. The man asks Cristian to tell Bunu that the coffee is not as tasty as he expected and that he will come to visit him soon. The old man leaves Cristian side by saying- they’re watching. Cristian ponders how he had real coffee as no one in the society had real coffee except for bribes. Cristian is left feeling confused. 
## Chapter 21
It is November now and Cristian is at the Van Dorn’s apartment. Dan motions for Crisitian to come to his TV room. Cristian asks Dan where he gets the videos. Dan takes out a notebook and writes that their friends send videos of themselves to him to say hello. Cristian is shocked to hear that Americans have video players, color TVs, and video cameras. Dan turns on a video for Cristian to listen to. The boys in the video say hello to Dan, discuss the Superbowl, and give their best to the Van Dorn family. Cristian admires the bowl of bananas in the video, the refrigerator in the background, and the packed shelves of all kinds of food. After the video ends, Cristian accidentally asks Dan when he is going to the American library. Dan is confused about how Cristian knows he goes to the American library but offers for him to join him on Saturday. The chapter ends with Cristian feeling betrayed by his society after seeing a glimpse into the lives that the people in the West are living. 
## Chapter 20 & 21 Discussion Questions
* Do you think the old man in line really had coffee or was he trying to trick Cristian? 
* Have you ever had to wait in line for something that seemed to take forever?
* Describe Cristian’s reaction to the video of the American boys. 
## Chapter 22
Cristian and his mother walk to the bus stop. Cristian tells his mother what he saw on the screen and asks if she has ever seen the color TV and video player. His mother avoids the question and assures him that she doesn’t look at their things and only cleans their house. His mother begins to get mad at Cristian and tells him he should not be picking him up anymore because he will be questioned by the Securitate. Cristian imagines what would happen if he told his mother the truth at this moment. Cristian says- Don’t you want better for your children? His mother angrily expresses how his father and her are always working, standing in lines, and never together.
Cristian stands up to her and states that the communist party is stealing their power and controlling everyone through their own fear. She tells Cristian to never say anything like that again as he will end up like his grandfather. Cristian is confused. Is his mother mad at Bunu for having cancer? This doesn’t make any sense to Cristian. 
## Chapter 23
Cristian begins to write in his notebook. He needs to process how he feels and sort things out. He writes about his family, his worries, and all that is going on. Cristian thinks of Liliana. He wants to see her again, but he has to sit in class. A classmate of his stands at the door of calculus class. The boy begins to yell- No! No! No!. He starts to panic and quack. He admits out loud to the class that he is an informer. The classroom falls silent and the boy walks out of the classroom sobbing. Cristian has a realization about who he thinks may be an informer: his teachers, the school director, the secretary, Luca, and last he questions, “Was Liliana an informer?” 
## Chapters 22 & 23 Discussion Questions
* Have you ever used notebooks to process your feelings or write about what is going on in your day? 
* Describe the atmosphere of the classroom when Cristian’s classmate begins to yell and panic. 
## Chapter 24
Cristian waits to see if the agent will meet with him today. Cristian needs to meet with the agent to get medicine for Bunu. He waits for a while and then ends up leaving school. He thinks of Liliana. Did she care about him? Or did she just want information from him? Cici rushes towards Cristian. She explains how someone came to see Bunu and he is doing better. She wonders if someone negotiated treatments or medicine. Cristian thinks of the old man from the store line and his message about the coffee. Starfish walks by and asks Cici if she is going to video night. Cici admits that she is going with Alex Pavel, Liliana’s brother. Cici expresses if it is weird for her to go out with Alex that she won’t. Cristian, despite feeling strange about it, says it is okay. Cristian then tells Cici about the boy from class admitting he is an informer. Cici warns Cristian to stay far away from him. 
## Chapter 25
Cristian arrives home and finds Bunu standing in the kitchen, trying to fix the radio. Bunu states that he needs some fresh air, and Cristian helps him to the balcony. The two make snarky jokes about communism and the lack of working heat in their apartment. Then, Bunu shares that he thinks “something’s brewing,” but he needs to fix the family’s radio to hear updates. Bunu says that he feels trapped in today’s Romania, reflecting on life before the communist regime. He wonders what communism is doing to the young minds of Romania. Bunu then shares that he got a package today, implying that he received medicine. He thinks that there is an informer in the
apartment. Cristian becomes paranoid. He helps Bunu off the balcony and back into the apartment. 
## Chapters 24 & 25 Discussion Questions
* What could be the underlying intentions or significance of the old man from the store line’s message about the coffee? 
* Why do you think Bunu needs a working radio? 
## Chapter 26
Cristian and Liliana sit in the stairwell together. Cristian tries to relax, but he still feels guilty about his conversation with Bunu. Cristian tells Liliana that he permitted Cici to go out with Alex, but admits that he still finds it a little weird. Liliana says she feels similarly, speculating that her brother got the idea for a date with Cici after seeing her and Cristian together at video night. The two become physically affectionate as they reflect on the timeline of their relationship. Cristian then asks Liliana what she would do for work if they lived in the West. Liliana says she would be a librarian because she loves books. She poses the same question to Cristian. He hesitates but eventually tells her that he would be a writer. Liliana says that that makes sense since she sees Cristian as a philosopher, not a follower. The two lean in to kiss, but pull away when they hear footsteps. 
## Chapter 27
Cristian and Liliana sit motionless in the stairwell. “Who’s there?” Cristian calls out. Someone screams, followed by the sound of glass breaking and a plea for help. Cristian recognizes the voice and runs down the steps to find his shaken mother surrounded by shattered glass. Cristian and Liliana help her up the steps to Cristian’s apartment. When they arrive, Cristian’s mother explains that she waited for 3 hours to get cooking oil at the market. When she finally returned home, Cristian’s voice startled her, and she dropped the bottle of oil. Bunu makes a cynical remark about the regime, which Liliana overhears. After cleaning up the oil mess, Cristian and Liliana return to the stairwell. Liliana asks Cristian if he thinks the world knows what is happening in Romania. Cristian ponders this for a moment, wondering if Nick Van Dorn could notify Washington D.C. about the conditions in Romania. Suddenly, Cristian blurts out, “I have an idea.” 
## Chapters 26 & 27 Discussion Questions
* When you were a child/teenager, what was your dream job? 
* What do you think was Liliana’s reaction to hearing Bunu’s open opposition to the communist regime? 
## Chapter 28
Liliana asks Cristian what his idea is, but he decides to stay quiet. He wants to give Mr. Van Dorn his notebook to expose Romania but doesn’t think it is a good idea to tell Liliana about his secret writing. The next day, Cristian boards the bus to meet up with Dan after school. The two are planning to go to the American library. Public transportation is lacking in Romania, so the bus is always overcrowded. When he arrives, Mr. Van Dorn greets Cristian. As he waits for Dan in the family’s living room, Cristian takes note of various things around the living room – Mr. Van Dorn’s typewriter and his cup of coffee particularly peek Cristian’s interest. Before Cristian and Dan leave the apartment, Mr. Van Dorn reveals a TIME magazine cover to Cristian and tells him to look for the latest edition at the library. Cristian feels a connection with Mr. Van Dorn and thinks that he can trust him. He wonders if their relationship can help him outsmart the secret police. 
### Informer Report (11 Nov. 1989)
This report entails specific information about Cristian’s interactions with the Van Dorns. It specifically highlights Cristian’s conversation with Mr. Van Dorn and hypothesizes that Cristian is pursuing private communication with the diplomate. The report ends by advising that an agent cross reference this information with other sources. 
## Chapter 28 & Informer Report Discussion Questions
* Why do you think Mr. Van Dorn’s coffee is of particular interest to Cristian?
## Chapter 29
Cristian and Dan walk to the American library. Cristian notices how casually Americans speak. Cristian looks at the walls covered with shelves of books. He wants to read every one of them. He comes across an album with the Romanian flag on the cover. The album reveals a big portrait of Ceausescu that writes of how he has been to over 100 countries. The album is full of photos of him with dignitaries and heads of state from around the world. There is even a photo of Ceausescu with Mickey Mouse in Disneyland. Cristian can’t believe that he is welcomed into all of these countries. Then Cristian finds a TIME magazine titled “THE BIG BREAK: Moscow Lets Eastern Europe Go Its Own Way.” Cristian is stunned. Hungary, the country which borders Romania, is free from communist rule. 
## Chapter 30
Cristian continues to read the magazine. He wonders how long Hungary has been free and if his parents know about this. Dan then shows Cristian a picture of a woman in Rolling Stone Magazine. Dan asks Cristian if he has a girlfriend and he hesitates but tells him the truth and that her name is Liliana. Cristian asks Dan if he has a girlfriend and he explains he used to like a German girl in his building and she will still send him letters with cool stamps. Dan asks if Liliana likes music and Cristian nods, telling him that she likes Bruce Springsteen. Dan flips to an article about Bruce Springsteen, rips it out of the magazine, and hands it to Cristian to give to Liliana. Dan tells Cristian not to tell anyone that he ripped the magazine. Cristian feels overwhelmed by the amount of information he gained from being in the American library. 
### Informer Report [11 Nov. 1989]:
This report exposes Cristian for going into the American library with Dan Van Dorn. It explains how he read through an American political magazine. The report reveals how Dan tore a page out of the magazine and put it in his pocket. 
## Chapters 29, 30, and Informer Report [11 Nov. 1989] Discussion Questions
* What was Cristian’s interaction with the women working at the library like?
* What is your favorite magazine to read?
* Do you think that Cristian will tell people the news about Hungary being free?
## Chapter 31
On his way home, Cristian meets a woman in the stairwell with a large suitcase. She tells Cristian she is from Romania but lives in Boston. He is so confused by this. The woman explains that she is visiting her dying mother, Mrs. Drucan, and then says goodbye. When Cristian enters the apartment, his mother and Bunu are fighting. Cristian's mother is upset that Bunu traded their 
Kents to have the radio repaired. Bunu exclaims that the radio is valuable right now because of the news from Poland and Hungary. Cristian silently agrees with his Bunu. When Cici gets home she hands Cristian an envelope and teases that it is a love letter from Liliana. Cristian opens the letter. The letter reads: You are a liar. You are everything I despise. You are an informer.
## Chapter 32
Cristian is heartbroken. He struggles to breathe. Cristian bangs on Liliana’s apartment door. Her brother Alex tells Cristian she is not home. Cristian continues to knock. Alex tells Cristian to please stop and that Liliana does not want to see him. The pair begin to argue. Finally, Liliana comes forward to the door and angrily tells Cristian that the secret police pulled her father out of work to question him about giving the bones to the dogs. The secret police also knew that Liliana had a coke. Cristian tells Liliana that he didn’t tell anyone that. Liliana does not believe him. She yells with tears in her eyes, “I liked you so much. So much that now I hate you.” Liliana ran out the door. Cristian is left in shambles. 
## Chapters 31 & 32 Discussion Questions
* Who do you think informed on Liliana’s family? 
* If you were Cristian, what would you do for Liliana to forgive you? 
## Chapter 33
Cristian can’t believe what is happening. When he closes his eyes he sees the clapping men suffocating him with a plastic bag. He can’t breathe. In his dream, Ceausescu arises and raises his right hand to bless and save him. Cristian wakes up from the nightmare. He runs to the bathroom and vomits. 
## Chapter 34
Cristian feels that he is at a crossroads – he doesn’t want to be an informer, but he also doesn’t want Bunu to die. At school, Luca confronts Cristian and says he wants to mend their friendship. Cristian dismisses him. Liliana still won’t talk to Cristian, despite his efforts to explain that the whole situation is a misunderstanding. Starfish advises Cristian to forget about Liliana, but Cristian continues to pursue her. He knows that Liliana hasn’t told anyone that she thinks Cristian is an informer, so maybe she is trying to protect him. Cici comforts her brother as he grieves his relationship. She tells him not to give up on Liliana. Bunu tells Cristian that his pain is inspiring – it means that the regime has not stolen his humanity. Cristian feels the urge to confess, but Bunu walks away before he can. 
# Chapters 33 & 34 Discussion Questions
* Do you think Cristian should make up with Luca? Why or why not? 
* Do you think Cristian should continue to pursue Liliana? Why or why not? 
## Chapter 35
Cristian goes to meet with Agent Paddle Hands. Upon entering the apartment, Cristian sees his informer file sitting on the desk in front of him and wonders what is in it. Cristian tells Agent Paddle Hands about his time with Dan in the library. He shares that Dan reads pop culture magazines and that he has a private tutor. Agent Paddle Hands asks specific questions about the tutor, but Cristian doesn’t know the answers to his questions. Cristian then shares that Dan likes a girl. He lies and says that Dan is in a long-distance relationship, and that Dan plans to go to Princeton to be closer to his girlfriend. Agent Paddle Hands asks if Dan or his father interact with Romanian women. Cristian wonders why he is asking about women. Agent Paddle Hands asks
Cristian what he saw in the American Library and Cristian talks about seeing a photo of Ceausescu at Disneyland. The conversation moves on and Agent Paddle Hands asks if Dan took anything from the library. His question makes Cristian realize that he must know about the Bruce Springsteen article that Dan stole. He tells Agent Paddle Hands that Dan stole an article about some American musicians. Cristian then tries to connect with Agent Paddle Hands over Romanian soccer, since he noticed that Paddle Hands is a soccer fan at their previous meeting. Agent Paddle Hands lets his guard down for a second, engaging in a few conversational turns with Cristian about soccer. He then quickly returns to his rigid and serious posture. Agent Paddle Hands tells Cristian that he knows that there is a desk inside the Van Dorn’s apartment and that he must find out what is on the desk. How did Agent Paddle Hands hear of Mr. Van Dorn’s desk? 
### Official Report: Top Secret [14 Nov. 1989] 
This report entails specific information about Cristian’s meeting with Agent Paddle Hands. The report describes Cristian as arrogant and manipulative. It highlights that Cristian’s signature from this meeting looks different than his signature from their last meeting. The report summarizes the information that Cristian provided and ends by stating that Cristian is tasked with retrieving information from Mr. Van Dorn’s desk. 
**NOTE: In this report, Cristian is referred to as “Oscar”, as this is his spy name assigned by the secret police. 
## Chapter 35 & Official Report Discussion Questions
* Why do you think Agent Paddle Hands has so many questions about Romanian women? 
* How does Agent Paddle Hands know about Mr. Van Dorn’s Desk? 
## Chapter 36
Cristian walks home from his meeting with Agent Paddle Hands. He questions how Agent Paddle Hands knows about the stolen magazine. At his apartment building, Cristian runs into Mrs. Drucan’s daughter. She tells Cristian that it won’t be long before her mother dies and that she needs help moving furniture. Cristian offers to help, and the two head up to her apartment. Inside, Mrs. Drucan looks small and frail. The daughter wants to move the sofa closer to the bed so she can be near her mother at night. While they move the sofa, the daughter shares that she left Bucharest in the 70s to move to Boston. She is married to an American and has a U.S. passport, making it easy for her to travel to Romania. Mrs. Drucan begins to stir, and Cristian helps the daughter reposition her mother. The two then leave Mrs. Drucan’s bedroom. The daughter offers Cristian Kents for his help, but Cristian hesitates to accept her offer. The daughter then becomes emotional, wondering what she will do with her mother’s body since cremation in Romania is expensive and unreliable. The daughter then tells Cristian, “Things are moving quickly. Take care. There will be danger here.” Cristian leaves the apartment without taking the Kents.
## Chapter 37
Cristian is sitting in the kitchen with Bunu listening to Radio Free Europe. He is thinking about Mrs. Duncan’s daughter’s remark about danger coming. Bunu, on the other hand, is feeling hopeful about the future of Romania, as other communist regimes, such as East Germany, are being overthrown. Cristian asks Bunu how the outside world will find out about what is going on in Romania. Bunu says that Romanians who live outside of the country will spread the word. Cristian’s mother tells Bunu to be quiet. Cristian’s father then joins the conversation, only contributing single-word responses - “bold,” “hold,” “fight.” Cristian reflects on his father’s comments, realizing that he doesn’t really know his father at all. 
## Chapter 38
Reports about the outside world continue to come through the radio. Bunu is weak and the family is Kent-less, but Cristian is grateful that they have a working radio. Cristian’s mother questions if they can trust the radio reports. Cristian’s father says that they don’t have a choice not to trust the reports. Cristian’s mother suggests that they turn off the radio because it is too stressful. Bunu argues that it will be more stressful without the information. Over the following days, several of Bunu’s friends and colleagues come to visit him, with whisperings of a revolution. This angers Cristian’s mother, which confuses Cristian. Bunu says that Cristian’s mother’s fear is making her angry. 
## Chapters 36-38 Discussion Questions
* Why didn’t Cristian accept the Kents from Mrs. Drucan’s daughter? 
* If you were living in Romania during this time, would you listen to the radio?
## Chapter 39
Cristian sees an agent from below his balcony. He then sees Liliana walking down the street with her brother. He questions whether Liliana is looking for him or the agent. Cristian goes back inside and hears the low rumbles of the radio. The radio 
reports that many states within the Soviet Union are breaking away from communism. Cristian can’t believe that Poland, Hungary, and East Germany are all free. "What about Romania?" he thinks. Cici reassures him that there are other countries that aren’t free such as Czechoslovakia and Bulgaria. 
## Chapter 40
On November 17th, the news announces that Czechoslovakia is free. After 41 years of communism, they are now free. 
## Chapters 39 and 40 Discussion Questions: 
* If you were Cristian in this situation, would you want to speak up for your country or remain silent and suffer? 
* Have you ever been in a situation where others around you seem to be getting their way, but you feel stuck? 
## Chapter 41
Shortly after this, the news announces that Bulgaria is free. Bulgaria is Romania’s neighbor on the southern border. The country stood up against its leader to break away from communist rule. 
## Chapter 42
At this point, Poland, Hungary, East Germany, Czechoslovakia, and Bulgaria are free from communist rule. Cristian is confused and nervous. "Why are all these countries breaking away and Romania is stuck?" he wonders. Cristian sees Starfish. He reports the news of Romania’s star Olympic gymnast, Nadia Comaneci, broke away from Romania and into the United States. Cristian questions whether Mr. Van Dorn had helped Nadia. He then wonders how many others are trying to run to the border and if the suffering of Romania’s superstars would bring light to the suffering country. He quickly denies this thought. Cristian
thinks, “How could we expect others to feel our pain or hear our cries for help when all we could do was whisper?” 
## Chapters 41 & 42 Discussion Questions
* Do you think the high-profile Romanian superstars have the power to influence the government and change the ways of communist rule? * Explain this quote in the context of the book: “How could we expect others to feel our pain or hear our cries for help when all we could do was whisper?” 
## Chapter 43
Cristian just wants freedom. He fills his notebook with his thoughts and information about the country. He decides that he needs Mr. Van Dorn to read the notebook and share the information with others. In order to do this, he will write in the notebook under an unidentified name and make sure the notebook appears in Mr. Van Dorn’s sight. He titles the notebook Screaming Whispers: A Romanian Teenager in Bucharest by Anonymous. He is scared of the consequences but knows it’s what he needs to do for his country. Cristian believes that it is better to die standing than live kneeling. 
## Chapter 44
Cristian goes to the Van Dorn’s apartment to meet up with Dan. They have plans to go to the American library again. When Cristian arrives, he looks over Mr. Van Dorn’s desk and decides where he will leave his notebook. On their walk to the library, Cristian asks Dan about his college essays and his plans for Christmas. Dan and his mother will be traveling home to the U.S., but his father must stay in Romania. A new U.S. Ambassador is arriving, and Mr. Van Dorn must greet him when he arrives. The two make it to the American library, which is unusually busy. Dan goes to look at music magazines, while Cristian turns to the international news section. He looks over a story about the Berlin Wall being torn down. Cristian wonders if Romania will ever be free from communism. On their walk home, Dan asks Christian if he’s OK. Dan recognizes that it must be frustrating to watch other countries experience change while Romania stays the same. Cristian then tries to give Dan the Bruce Springsteen article that he gave him a few weeks ago. Cristian comments on how the article could cause him even more trouble than the
American dollar that Dan gave him. Dan says he never put an American dollar in Cristian’s stamp connection. This is confusing to Cristian as he is not sure who else would have snuck foreign currency into his stamp collection. 
## Chapters 43 & 44 Discussion Questions 
* What do you think of Cristian’s idea to give Mr. Van Dorn his notebook? 
* Who do you think put the American dollar in Cristian’s stamp collection? 
## Chapter 45
As Cristian approaches his apartment building, he sees flickering candles and a large cross outside the entrance. He assumes that Mrs. Drucan has passed. One of the neighbors says, “sorry,” to Cristian and he realizes that maybe it isn’t Mrs. Drucan who has died. He races up the stairs and his father instructs him to get inside quickly. Cristian finds his mother sitting in the kitchen smoking a Kent. She leads Cristian to the bedroom, where he finds Bunu’s body. His hands and feet are shattered and Cristian’s mother tells him that all of his ribs are broken as well. Bunu was beaten to death. Cristian is in total shock. He wonders how he will live without Bunu. 
## Chapter 46
Cristian is grieving the death of his grandfather. The whole family is mourning - they cover mirrors with dark fabric and keep the doors unlocked so that Bunu’s spirit can come and go. Neighbors set up chairs in the hallway to mourn with the family. Cristian is not in a social mood but does want to stay close to Bunu. In his mind, he has a one-sided conversation with his grandfather. An older man comes to the family’s apartment. It is the same man who previously told Cristian to warn Bunu about coffee. He asks Cristian to step outside with him and Cristian agrees. The man reveals that Bunu was not quiet about his political opinions, and even got called to the Securitate headquarters. There, Bunu drank a lot of coffee, which the older man thinks was poisoned. The older man then states that Bunu was killed to set an example for others who support the revolution. 
## Chapters 45 & 46 Discussion Questions: 
* What was your reaction to Bunu’s death? 
* If you were Cristian, would you still give Mr. Van Dorn your notebook?
## Chapter 47
Alex, Liliana, and Luca all stop by Cristian’s family’s apartment to pay their respects. Cristian is angry and nervous when he sees Liliana. He wonders why she came. Liliana tells Cristian that she is sorry, and he isn’t sure if she is sorry for his loss or for accusing him of informing on her. Alex tells Liliana that it is time to leave; there is still tension between Cristian and Alex. Next, Luca approaches Cristian. The two decide to step into the hallway to talk. Luca begins to apologize and Cristian becomes confused. Luca apologizes for liking Liliana. He believes that his crush on Liliana upset Cristian and that is why he won’t speak to Luca. Cristian then accuses Luca of informing on Liliana. Luca tells Cristian to “go to hell” and walks away. Cristian smashes one of the hallway chairs in anger. Mrs. Drucan’s daughter hears the crash and comes out of her apartment. She comforts Cristian, telling him to breathe. She reminds him, “The regime is sick, not you.” 
Informer Report: [1 Dec. 1989]: 
This report breaks down Liliana’s departure from Cristian’s apartment. In the stairwell, she argues with her brother, Alex, saying that Cristian is different. Alex leaves, and Liliana remains in the stairwell. Then, Cristian and Luca exit the apartment to have their own private conversation. Liliana hears Cristian accuse Luca of informing on Liliana. She then flees the building. 
## Chapter 48
The whole family is overwhelmed after three nights of funeral visitations. Cici in particular is feeling frightened. She wants to make a plan to protect herself and Cristian. Cristian decides that he will give Mr. Van Dorn his notebook as soon as possible. He remembers a story about a Romanian professor who smuggled an open letter to Ceausescu to Munich. The letter was broadcasted on Radio Free Europe. 
While journaling in his notebook, Cristian sees a piece of paper attached to the doorframe of the closet. He pulls it out and unfolds the paper, revealing a note from Bunu. The note instructs Cristian to listen to Radio Free Europe and to stay patient and wise. It ends with Bunu stating that he is proud of Cristian. Cristian now knows that Bunu knew that the secret police were coming for him.
## Chapters 47-48 Discussion Questions: 
* What do you think was Liliana’s reaction to hearing Cristian accuse Luca of informing on her? 
* How does Cristian know that Bunu knew people were coming to kill him?
## Chapter 49
The atmosphere of the apartment is heavy and upsetting. Cristian remembers the notebook for Mr. Van Dorn. He decides to wrap it like a gift and put Mr. Van Dorn’s name on it. He doesn’t have wrapping paper, so he covers it with the Romanian teen almanac. He then takes a ribbon and secures it around the notebook to look like a gift. He finally has the notebook ready, and he begins to sweat from fear. Cristian must bring the notebook to school for the whole day before he can get it to the Van Dorn’s apartment. The thought of this makes Cristian nervous. But he argues that it is too late to change his mind. He sets off. 
## Chapter 50
Cristian heads to school and sees Liliana walking with a group of her friends. Liliana’s face turns towards Cristian, but he turns away and heads to class. Cristian nervously sits in class and anxiously waits. At the end of the day, Cristian rushes to Dan’s apartment. Cristian starts to ponder what his plan will be when he arrives. He then begins to worry about how he is breaking Romanian law in multiple ways. He takes a deep breath and heads into their apartment. 
## Chapters 49 and 50 Discussion Questions
* Do you think Cristian’s plan is a good idea? 
* If not, do you have a plan for Cristian that might be less obvious? 
## Chapter 51
Mrs. Van Dorn opens the door for Cristian. She expresses her condolences for the loss of Bunu. Mrs. Van Dorn then rushes to answer the phone. As her back is turned, Cristian grabs his notebook and runs to Mr. Van Dorn’s desk. He slides the notebook under a stack of newspapers. Suddenly, the door opens. It is Dan and Mr. Van Dorn. They enter with a big crate full of food and American products. Cristian feels Mr. Van Dorn’s eyes on him being so close to his desk. Mr. Van Dorn asks Cristian what he has been up to but is then interrupted to take a phone call. 
Dan and Cristian head out to the library. Dan tells Cristian that he won’t be coming back to Romania because he is spending next semester in Dallas to go to school.
Dan says that he has a gift for Cristian because he is leaving. The gift is four U.S stamps. Cristian thinks this is so special. Dan expresses to Cristian that he would like him to look over his college essay. Cristian is nervous about doing this and thinks of when Liliana called him a liar. This makes Cristian feel sick inside. He avoids reading the essay and Dan asks for his address to stay in touch. Cristian writes his address on a piece of paper. He thanks Dan for the stamps and leaves without reading the essay. Cristian leaves wondering about friendship and if Dan really wanted a friendship with him. 
Informer Report [9 Dec 1989]: 
The report cites that Cristian was in the American library with Dan Van Dorn. It also cites that there was an exchange of an envelope and a piece of paper. The report says that Dan was approached by an American adult male (identity unknown) and spoke in a hushed conversation for 10 minutes. Dan appears to have given the paper to the American male. Dan leaves shortly after this encounter. 
## Chapter 52
Cristian waits and waits to hear if Mr. Van Dorn found the notebook. Liliana and Luca are on the sidewalk below. Cici warns Cristian to not engage with them. Cici also warns Cristian that they need to be smart and careful now that Bunu is gone. Cristian wants to confess to Cici but can’t fathom the thought of losing her too. Cristian writes an entry in his new notebook before bed that explains how he never has had the chance to become who he wants to be. 
## Chapters 51 & Ch 52 Discussion Questions
* What type of American food does Dan give to Cristian? Do you like them? 
* Why do you think Dan asked for Cristian's address? 
* Who do you think Dan gave the piece of paper with the address to? 
## Chapter 53
At school, Cristian is given the signal to go meet with Agent Paddle Hands. When he enters the vacant apartment, Cristian loudly states, “My Bunu is dead.” Agent Paddle Hands explains that Bunu was given medicine, but that he had a mental disorder and rapidly declined. Cristian believes that Agent Paddle Hands is implying that Bunu had “parasitism” - a fictional mental illness that people who do
not support the regime are diagnosed with. Agent Paddle Hands moves on and starts asking questions about Dan. Cristian tells him that Dan is leaving the country, but that he gave Cristian a Christmas card. Agent Paddle Hands questions if Dan gave Cristian any gifts, such as a Bruce Springsteen article. Cristian had never mentioned that the article Dan stole was about Bruce Springsteen - someone else must have told him. The agent then asks about Mr. Van Dorn. Cristian shares that he is not traveling to the U.S. for Christmas. Agent Paddle Hands tries to confirm that Mr. Van Dorn will be alone in the family’s apartment for weeks. He ends the conversation by saying, “Your mama will be there with him. Just to clean, of course.” 
Official Report: Top Secret [15 Dec. 1989]: 
This report describes specific details about Cristian’s meeting with Agent Paddle Hands. It notes that Cristian is no longer of use, stating, “taking necessary measures.” It also states that Mr. Van Dorn will be alone in his apartment, ending with the recommendation to “accelerate plan.” 
## Chapter 54
Cristian thinks about Agent Paddle Hands’s smug comment about his mother. On his way home, he runs into Starfish, who tries to sell him papers from a British man at an intercontinental conference. Cristian tells him to get the illegal documents and then they will talk. Cristian turns the corner and notices candles and the large wooden cross outside his building - Mrs. Drucan has passed away. On the third floor, Cristian finds Cici setting up chairs in the hallway for visiting hours. Cristian goes to see Mrs. Drucan’s daughter and asks if she needs any help, to which she replies “No.” She says that her mother’s death was peaceful - a death that Bunu deserved. On his way out of the apartment, the daughter offers Cristian a cup of coffee, which he refuses. He realizes that he never learned the daughter’s name. 
When Cristian arrives at his apartment, he checks to see if the Bruce Springsteen article is where he left it. He finds that the article has been taken, which means that the secret police have been in the apartment. The next time they come, Cristian plans to be there.
## Chapters 53 & 54 Discussion Questions
* What do you think is going to happen to Cristian after he meets with Agent Paddle Hands? 
* Why do you think that Cristian never asked Mrs. Drucan’s daughter’s name? 
* Have you ever known someone casually, but did not know their name? How did you handle the situation? 
## Chapter 55
After dinner, Cici and Cristian listen to Voice of America on the radio. As Cristian adjusts the wire, a voice comes through the static, saying “Protest in Maria Square.” Cristian’s mother says that Maria Square is in Timisoara, a city in western Romania. Cristian finally finds a clear signal, and the whole family gathers to listen. An anti-government protest is growing in Maria Square and a few civilians have been killed. The whole family is shocked; Cristian thinks of Bunu. The broadcast ends by reporting that the masses have started chanting “liberty” in response to the Mayor’s demand that the crowd disperses. 
## Chapter 56
Cristian stays up late listening to the radio. The announcers on Radio Free Europe and Voice of America are reporting details about the protest, including the number of civilian deaths. Cristian looks at a map - Timisoara is 550 kilometers from Bucharest. Could buses be arranged to transport people to Maria Square? What if protests started around the country? Romania is the last flap of the Iron Curtain. If the people want freedom, they will have to fight for it. 
## Chapter 57
Cristian feels invincible on his way to school. He hopes to form a group to contribute to the bubbling revolution. However, everyone at school is silent. Has anyone heard the radio reports? On his walk home, Cristian and Luca fall into step. Luca asks Cristian if he listened to the reports, and the two begin talking about the protest. Cristian asks why people at school didn’t mention it, and Luca explains that everyone is terrified. Luca asks Cristian what Bunu would do, and Cristian says that they need to be a united group. When they reach Luca’s apartment, he tells Cristian to call his landline and let it ring once as a signal. Luca will then leave the apartment and meet Cristian outside.
Cristian then runs into Starfish, who has the illegal documents he previously told Cristian about. Cristian asks him if he has heard any updates, and he shares that Ceausescu is on a trip to Iran. 
When Cristian enters his apartment, his father is standing near the radio. At night, a broadcast comes on, saying that tensions have escalated in Timisoara. The broadcast plays a recording from the protest - chaos, screaming, gunshots. The government is murdering Romanian citizens. Cristian’s father begins walking around the kitchen, collecting knives, brooms, and mop handles. Cristian’s mother asks what he is doing, and his father replies that they need to be ready to fight. 
## Chapters 55, 56, & 57 Discussion Questions
* What was your reaction to hearing about the protest? 
* Can you remember a time when you heard national news on the radio? What was the event?
## Chapter 58
Cristian sits alone nervously in the apartment. He wonders if the protests will continue. He still wonders if Mr. Van Dorn read his notebook. Luca calls and tells Cristian that university dorms are under surveillance. Later, Cristian sees Liliana walking down the street. Starfish interrupts and asks Cristian for money for the illegal English documents he has. Starfish asks Cristian if he has heard about the new American ambassador and the activity at the U.S. Embassy. Cristian nods without saying anything. He grabs the money from Cici’s safe. When he is looking through her safe, he sees soap, earrings, and two packs of Kents. Suddenly, Cristian notices the loop rings made from the package of cigarettes that Agent Paddle Hands constantly fiddles with during their meetings. He is sick to his stomach. He keeps looking to find American Dollars, British Pounds, German marks, and his beloved Bruce Springsteen Article that had disappeared from his closet. He thinks, "How can this be possible?" Cici is an informer. 
## Chapter 59
Cristian carefully puts everything back in the box. He keeps a knife and a few bills from the envelope. He leaves the apartment. Cristian is absolutely shocked. He wonders if Cici was blackmailed into being an informer like he was. He thinks of her cautious nature and how she always told Cristian to be safe. "Was this all an act?" Cristian asks himself. "Does Cici even care about the family or their country?" He feels sick, scared, and lost. 
## Chapters 58 and 59 Discussion Questions
* Did you suspect that Cici was an informer? 
* If you were Cristian, would you confront Cici? 
## Chapter 60: 
Cristian heads to Luca’s apartment. Cristian begins to write on a piece of paper confessing to Luca about how the secret police questioned him about the dollar in his stamp album. Cristian confesses that he thought Luca had informed on him. He then writes that it was Cici and shows Luca. Luca is shocked by this information. Luca apologizes to Cristian and the tension eases between them. Suddenly Luca asks Cristian to stand up. They begin to laugh, wrestle, and play like they did when they were young. Cristian begins to feel guilty that he still hasn’t told Luca that he is an
informer. When he leaves the apartment, he sees Liliana. They stare at each other. She sweetly expresses to Cristian that she is a Pisces. Cristian wonders how she knows that he has always been curious about this. She smiles and they go on their separate ways. 
## Chapter 61
Cristian sits in his dark closet and avoids his family. He begins to read the English papers he had bought from Starfish. The papers discuss the torture and ill-treatment of the Romanian people in the 1980s. Cici interrupts Cristian and he stuffs the papers into his pocket. She informs him that Ceausescu is going to be on TV. The chapter ends with Cristian’s decision to confront Cici. 
## Chapters 60 & Ch 61 Discussion Questions
* Do you think that Crsitian will tell Cici that he is an informer? 
* If you were in Cristian’s position with Luca, would you tell your best friend you were an informer? 
## Chapter 62
Cristian walks up early, puts on layers of warm clothes, and grabs a ration card. He leaves the apartment and hides across the street. When Cici finally leaves, Cristian follows her. He loses her when she takes a turn down the residential road, but spots her yellow scarf in a black car. Cici is meeting with the secret police. Cristian approaches the car and sees two figures sitting with Cici. One of them is Agent Paddle Hands. Cristian presses his face to the glass, and Cici jumps. Cristian starts running. The black car begins to chase him, and eventually, Cici jumps out of the vehicle. She tells Cristian that the secret police promised her medicine for Bunu and a passport. They wanted her to seduce Mr. Van Dorn, but she was unsuccessful. She suggested that Cristian might have better luck getting close to Mr. Van Dorn through Dan. Cristian cannot believe he is hearing. He realizes that it was she who informed on Liliana and her family. “You’ve killed me,” Cristian says. He turns and leaves Cici on the sidewalk. 
Official Report: Top Secret [20 December 1989] 
This document reports that the secret police’s meeting with Cici was compromised by Cristian. It labels Cristian as a liability and instructs to circulate his name and photo immediately.
## Chapter 63
Cristian is staying a Luca’s apartment - he wants to avoid Cici at all costs. He feels completely betrayed. Luca runs into Cristian when he’s walking around the city. Ceausescu is back in Romania and he’s going to speak at Palace Square. Cristian and Luca decide to go hear his speech. When they arrive, Cristian immediately wants to leave. Ceausescu gets on stage and begins speaking his typical “nonsense.“ Cristian turns to leave when suddenly there’s a blast, followed by screams. The crowd starts booing Ceausescu. University students shout “Murderer! Down with Ceausescu!” Others in the crowd begin to join. Romania has found its voice. Ceausescu does his best to calm the crowd, but it’s no use. Eventually, he turns to leave the stage. However, the crowd does not disperse. The Romanians of Bucharest are ready for revolution. 
## Chapters 62 & 63 Discussion Questions
* Were you surprised to find out that Cici informed on Liliana?
* Have you ever been to a protest? Tell us about your experience. 
## Chapter 64
The crowd from the protest lingers. An older woman approaches Luca and Cristian and tells them to go home and hide. Luca responds, "We are not cowards." A university student comes forward and states that this is a peaceful protest. The people are asking for electricity and food, and the freedom of opinion and religion. An elderly man begins to sing the old song of patriotism, which has been outlawed since the beginning of communist rule. The university student approaches Luca and Cristian and introduces himself. His name is Adrian. Cristian takes his knife and cuts out the communism emblem from the center of Adrian’s Romanian flag. Adrian tells Cristian and Luca to carry the flag and the old man leads the protest through the streets of Bucharest. Eventually, the group arrives at University Square. Cristian and Luca are shocked to see thousands of people chanting for liberty. The two boys start to help build a barricade using furniture. At the protest, Luca and Cristian see many young children and ask Adrian if they should send the kids home. Adrian does not seem concerned for their safety. He argues that the world must see that everyone in Romania wants change. 
## Chapter 65
Army and militia units are moving in on the revolution, and Ceausescu has just called for more military backup. Outside the barricade, Luca tries to negotiate with a young soldier. The soldier asks for a cigarette, and Adrian gives him one. Adrian pleads “Put the gun down! You are Romanian just like me.“ Armored vehicles pull in closer, and Luca and Cristian follow Adrian. Hiding behind a car, they run into a little boy who is crying out for his father. Adrian says they need to get to the barricade. Adrian starts to run and he is shot in the chest by a sniper. Suddenly, Cristian feels hands grab him from behind. Luca calls out for Cristian, but is then shot in the shoulder and arm. Cristian yells after Luca, when suddenly a thud hits his head. His vision blurs as he watches Luca bleeding on the sidewalk. 
## Chapter 66 
Cristian wakes up in a moving vehicle. The police van is full of adults and children, including the little boy from behind the car. The boy tells Cristian that Luca was dragged away, but he isn’t sure by whom. The van stops and everyone inside is instructed to get out. They are taken to a garage and the military officers begin searching each person. Cristian realizes he still has the illegal English documents that Starfish gave him in his pocket. He looks at his hands and sees that they have been marked with green paint. If he tries to grab the papers or remove them from his pocket, the officers will know. Suddenly, the group starts to hear screaming from inside the garage. After several minutes, the screaming stops. The guards get to Cristian, but they decide not to search him. Cristian is relieved. One by one, the guards take each of the captives and beat them. When it is Cristian’s turn, he tries to think of Luca and Bunu and their bravery. The officers say that Cristian is special and they call him a traitor. After they beat him, they bring in a dog. The guards make a circle around Cristian and let go of the dog’s leash. The dog lunges at Cristian, but suddenly stops. He then turns around and starts going after the guards. Cristian pulls himself off the cement floor and joins the other captives. All of their hands are tied. The officers then try to get each person to make a statement, but no one will confess. When it is Cristian's turn, he starts to describe Agent Paddle Hands, saying, “he’s the one you want.” The officers believe that Cristian is confessing. They then bring the captives towards another set of vans and tell them that they are being sent to a maximum security prison. Cristian can see that the vans are packed with injured captives. He then plans to escape. Cristian wants to stay
and fight for his country. As he gets closer to the van, he sees someone that he knows inside and decides to jump in. 
## Chapters 64, 65, & 66 Discussion Questions
* What are the colors of the Romanian flag (mentioned in chapter 64)?
* What was your reaction to Adrian saying that the children should stay at the protest? 
* Why do you think Cristian got in the van?
## Chapter 67
The person in the van is Liliana. Cristian asks if she is okay. She cannot believe the blood on Cristian’s face. Cristian pulls at his nose and it cracks. Blood gushes all over him but he can breathe easier. Lilianna begins to cry. She tells Cristian of the horrific acts she has seen. Cristian tells Liliana that Luca was shot twice. They put their faces together and sit in silence and pain. Others in the van begin to talk about how they’re being brought to Jivala. Liliana tells them her and Cristian’s full name. She then tells them that if any of them are set free to tell their families they’re alive and they were last seen together. 
## Chapter 68
Cristian worries about Jilava and what is going to happen. When they arrive, they are pushed through dark tunnels into a corridor. Liliana tells Cristian that he needs a doctor for his broken nose. Cristian’s main concern is to find Luca. Cristian finally gets his hands on the American papers in his pockets and shoves them down his pants. Liliana remains scared and tells Cristian that Cici was at her apartment earlier in the day with Alex. Cristian tells Liliana to keep her brother away from Cici. Liliana says she already knows Cici is an informer. Cristian then tells Cici about the notebook and how it has been given to Mr. Van Dorn. Cici is now very worried for Cristian’s safety. Cristian yells in distress to anyone who will listen that Luca was shot and Cristian urges the others to find him. A man taps Cristian on his shoulder and says he knew Bunu. “He would be very proud of you,” the man expresses as he walks away. 
## Chapters 67 & 68 Discussion Questions
* Describe the atmosphere of Jilava. 
* Do you think Cristian will continue to fight for his country and risk his life? 
## Chapter 69
Guards push Liliana, Cristian, and the other children into a dark room and order them to sit down. After the guards leave, Cristian tosses the pictures of Ceausescu and his wife on the ground. Liliana urges Cristian to stop for the sake of their safety. A guard returns and notices the portraits on the ground. He is furious and asks who did that. Cristian expresses that they were like that when they came in. The guard demands the group all get on
their hands and knees to kiss the portraits. Liliana tells Cristian to kiss her. She says they must kiss each other before they have to kiss the portraits. The pair kiss and kiss again until it is their turn to kiss the portraits. The guards yell angrily at the kids to clean a bathroom with a pile of feces. The children begin to cry. Cristian stands up for the child and ensures the kids that they have better morals than the Romanian guards. Cristian uses the English papers and his shoes to shovel up the bathroom mess. 
## Chapter 70
Three more children arrive in the tiled room. The guards push Cristian against a wall and jam a club beneath his throat. They tie his hands up with a rope and push him into a van with the kids and Liliana. They arrive midmorning at a juvenile jail near the Van Dorn's apartment and the U.S. embassy. Liliana urges Cristian to escape and send someone to save them. "Go now!" she whispers to Cristian. Liliana believes in Cristian. Bunu believed in Cristian. He knows he can’t let them down. 
## Chapters 69 & 70 Discussion Questions
* Describe how Liliana may be feeling in the moment when Cristian leaves her side. 
* Does this dreadful experience remind you of any different historical events? 
## Chapter 71
Cristian steps out of the back of the van and crawls out of sight. Once he is tucked behind a building, he tries to run, but he is in a lot of pain from his broken ribs. He makes it to the U.S. Embassy, where a crowd has formed. Cristian grabs a hat and coat from the street and tries to blend in with the other protesters. He goes up to the embassy gate and demands to see Mr. Van Dorn. The American soldier will not let him into the building without a passport. A protester standing next to Cristian offers him some water. He asks where he has been, and Cristian tells the man about the prison, the children, and Liliana. The man tells Cristian that his son will take Cristian home on his bike. As Cristian and the man’s son ride through Bucharest, Cristian takes note of the blood and bullets that cover the city. The cyclist is swerving through the streets to avoid crowds and secret agents. Cristian tells him to spread the word that the government is keeping children captive. They arrive at Cristian’s street and the cyclist drops him off. Cristian walks the rest of the way.
## Chapter 72
Cristian walks towards Liliana and Luca's building. He runs into Starfish who informs him that people are looking for Cristian. He tells Starfish that the agents have Liliana and that Luca was shot. Starfish agrees to help Cristian get into their building and says he will try and get Kents for Cristian. Once Cristian is in the building, he goes to Luca‘s apartment and knocks on his front door. No one answers, but he can hear that people are inside. He calls out to them. Luca‘s younger sister opens the door and lets Cristian in. The sisters are home alone while Luca‘s parents are out searching for him. Cristian goes to wash up and change into a pair of Lucas pants. He thinks about the scenes from the protests. Before he leaves, Cristian grabs a paper to write a note to slide under Liliana’s apartment door. Cristian tells Luca’s sisters to tell their parents that Cristian was there and that he is looking for Luca and checking the hospitals. Luca’s sister’s eyes well up with tears. 
## Chapters 71 & 72 Discussion Questions
* Do you think it was a good idea for Cristian to leave Liliana and the children behind? Why or why not? 
* Why do you think that Cristian went to Luca’s apartment first? 
## Chapters 73
Cristian exits Luca‘s apartment and runs into Starfish in the stairwell. The two leave the building together, and Starfish gives Cristian a pack of Kents. Cristian tells Starfish that he slipped a note under Liliana‘s apartment door to let her parents know where she is. He then tells Starfish that he is going to look for Luca, but he will call home soon to let his family know that he is safe. Starfish said there are snipers, guards, and security teams everywhere and that the regime has cut power to certain parts of the city. He tells Cristian not to travel alone. A car pulls up and Starfish talks to the driver, negotiating with him to take Cristian to the hospital. Cristian gets in the car. Suddenly they see a boy stumbling in the street. His eye was hit with a water cannon and he is badly injured. They let him into the car and the three take off for the hospital. When they arrive, they see lines of wounded civilians, people donating blood, and volunteers. Cristian helps the boy with an injured eye get inside, and a nurse takes him away. Cristian then makes his way to reception and asks about Luca. The receptionist tells Cristian that Luca is in the critical care unit and he cannot see him. Cristian cannot believe that Luca is alive. Cristian then heads to the volunteer ward and a university student inspects his nose and ribs. He gives Cristian pain medicine. Suddenly, a secret agent bursts into the hospital screaming for help, and then he pulls out a gun. 
## Chapter 74
Everyone at the hospital begins screaming. The secret agent says that the rebels are outnumbered and that it doesn’t matter if they have the army on their side. He points the gun at a bystander and pulls the trigger, but the gun doesn’t fire. Volunteers grab the agent and restrain him. Has the army turned on the government? A crowd starts walking from the hospital to Republic Square and Cristian joins them. When they arrive, they see 10,000 citizens standing shoulder to shoulder with the Romanian army. The army has turned on the regime and joined the Romanian people. Everyone is singing and chanting for “Liberty!” A helicopter appears above and the crowd speculates that it is Ceausescu and his wife fleeing the capital. The sound system crackles on, and a voice says “Victory is ours!” The crowd begins to sing. Cristian realizes that Bunu, Luca, and Liliana have all missed this moment of victory. He decides to find a pay phone to “save Liliana.” 
## Chapters 73 & 74 Discussion Questions
* Were you suspicious of Starfish’s kindness? Why or why not?
* Why do you think Cristian is looking for a payphone? 
* Do you remember hearing any news about the fall of the communist government in Romania? 
  * If not, what other world news do you remember hearing about in your lifetime?
## Chapter 75 Epilogue
Cheers and chanting fill the streets. Cristian knows he still has to help Liliana. He calls his mother and tells her he is okay. He explains that Liliana is in terrible danger and he must find her. He expresses that she must help send help to Liliana. His mom insists that he come home immediately. Cristian explains to his mom that the military has turned and Ceausescu is gone. She doesn’t believe him. Suddenly, above his head, is a helicopter that reads Romanians: Do not be afraid. You will be free.
## Chapter 76
Cristian goes back to the hospital despite what his mother wanted him to do. He continues to look for Luca in the critical care unit. Cristian runs into Cici and says that if she really wants to help she can go save Liliana and bribe the military. Cristian yells at her to go. Cristian sees Luca in the hospital bed. Luca lost a lot of blood and lost his arm. He is still sedated but his father is hopeful he will make it out alive. Luca’s father asks Cristian to go stay in the apartment with Luca’s little sisters. Cristians thinks of Liliana and wonders if Cici will be able to save her.
### Chapters 75 & 76 Discussion Questions
* If you were Cristian would you have taken it into your own hands to save Liliana or do you think sending Cici to help was a good idea?
* Describe the atmosphere of the hospital.
## Chapter 77
Cristian goes to Luca’s apartment and falls asleep on the floor. Later, Luca’s mother wakes him up and tells Cristian that Luca is alive and asking about him. Cristian asks about the news. She tells him that Ceacecscu hasn’t been seen and there are rumors that terrorists have moved in to fight the citizens and the military. Cristian leaves the apartment and sees Alex, Liliana’s brother. He tells Cristian that Liliana was found and is alive. Cristian is so relieved. Alex tells Cristian that Cici rescued Liliana. Cristian tells Alex
to give his love to Liliana and then he leaves to go home. His mother explodes when he walks through the door. “Do you know what you’ve done to our family? To my nerves?” she yells. She then tells him to go bathe and that she will make him soup. She says that his father is out looking for Cici. Cristian assures his mom that he saw Cici at the hospital and she should not worry about her.

## Chapter 78
Cristian sleeps in his parents' bed that night. He has terrible nightmares and wakes up to his father over his shoulder. His father tells him that Liliana is here to see him. Cristian eagerly awakes and Liliana walks through the door. They stare at each other. Liliana’s hair is gone and she has scabs all over her scalp. She explains to Cristian how lucky she is to be alive. The pair embrace in disbelief at the current situation. Cristians explains that all that matters is that they are together. They understand each other. They lay wrapped up in each other's arms. “I love you” whispers Cristian to Liliana as they fall asleep together.
### Chapters 77 & Ch 78 Discussion Questions
* Have you ever been reunited with a friend after a long time apart?
* Where do you think Cici is?
## Chapter 79
Fighting in Romania continues. Liliana and Cristian listen to reports from Radio Free Europe and watch Free Romania Television. The TV broadcasts footage from Nicolae Ceausescu’s estate. Everyone is shocked to see how luxurious his properties are. Liliana is particularly upset, comparing his lifestyle to the living conditions of Romanians. That night, Ceausescu is captured. The radio host comes on the air and says that an American diplomat has sent something to Radio Free Europe. It is a notebook titled “Screaming Whispers, an American Teenager in Bucharest.“ Cristian freezes. He can’t believe that everyone is about to hear his writing. The broadcaster reads an excerpt from Cristian’s notebook entitled “A Letter from Romania.“The letter is a short poem about what it was like to live in Romania under communist rule. Everyone is moved by the letter, including Cristian’s parents. Cristian feels Bunu with him. He thinks about Cici, who he hasn’t seen in a few days. He later finds the note from her, telling him to take care of himself, as “a revolution eats its heroes.”
## Chapter 80
2 days have passed, and it is now Christmas Day. Ceausescu and his wife go on trial, which lasts less than 2 hours. The couple is found guilty. A few hours later, they are both executed. Cristian smells something familiar. It is the smell of trapped prayers trying to find a way out. He rushes to the window and opens it, setting the prayers free.
### Chapters 79 & 80 Discussion Questions
* What was your reaction to Cristian’s notebook being read on the radio?
* What is your impression of Cristian’s father?
## Chapter 81
One year later, Cristian and Liliana are celebrating Christmas together. They are sitting in the hallway outside of Cristian’s apartment, exchanging gifts. Cristian opens a sleek box from Liliana. Inside is a ballpoint pen from Germany. Liliana tells Cristian to “keep writing.“ Cristian absolutely loves the pen. He then hands Liliana a gift. She unwraps a new Bruce Springsteen CD. Then Cristian takes out two Twinkies. Liliana asks what they are and Cristian explains that they’re in American food. They both take a bite. Sitting with
Liliana in the hallway, Cristian reflects on his new life and says the Twinkies taste like “hope.”
## Epilogue:
20 years have passed. Cristian is now teaching English and Liliana manages a bookstore. Luca immigrated to England with his parents. After the fall of the communist regime, the secret police archives disappeared. However, they are now being re-opened, and Cristian wants to see his family’s files. He still keeps in touch with Dan Van Dorn, but his parents have passed. As for Cici, her body was found a few days after the regime fell. The revolution had killed her. 
Cristian travels to government headquarters. He arrives in a reading room with an estimated 3,000 pages of information on his family. It takes him many visits to get through all of them. There are photos from hidden cameras, transcription of listening devices, and many notes on Bunu. The reports revealed that there was another informer from the family’s apartment. The source was named “Maria.“ In the reports, Maria confirms that her father-in-law is dissonant and that her husband is anti-communist. There are notes that she tried to mess with the family’s radio in exchange for protection for her children. Cristian realizes that Maria is his mother and that she was an informant. He also discovers that Cici was a double agent. She worked for the secret police while also trying to protect people from the regime. Cristian feels as though he misunderstood and failed his sister. The reports on Cristian himself are chilling. Things that he thought were private were never private.
At his high school reunion, Cristian runs into the boy who had a breakdown in class and yelled that he was an informer. Cristian apologizes to him for not comforting him. The two talk about Paddle Hands and the man says that he still sees Paddle Hands occasionally, as they are neighbors. He gives Cristian Paddle Hands’s his real name. 
At his job, Cristian sometimes tells his students about his experience in the revolution. They encourage him to write a book, and so he does. He leaves a copy of it for Bunu at his grave. After receiving Paddle Hands’s real name, Cristian finds his address. He now stands outside his front door. He can smell the cigarette smoke. He knocks and hears footsteps approaching the front door.
### Chapter 81 & Epilogue Discussion Questions
* Were you surprised to find out that Cristian’s mother was an informer?
  * Can you think of any clues from the book that would support this?
* What do you think Cristian said to Agent Paddle Hands?
* Overall, how do you feel about the way the book ended?